                      METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DISPATCHING CASINO
               PERSONNEL AND TRACKING INTERACTIONS WITH PLAYERS
                               ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        The present embodiment includes a dispatch system and method in which a casino agent is
equipped with mobile computing devices that receive a dispatch notification. The notification
includes the identity of an electronic gaming device at which an identified player has started a
gaming session and the identity of the player. The player's record is displayed on the mobile
computing device and includes the number of times the casino agent has been dispatched to a
gaming device at which the player is identified as well as descriptions of prior calls.
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486

                    7/144
                          co
           LO)A                 CN
   CO )
                       oc
                U)l
C)
        Coo                  C/

                                                Title
                       METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DISPATCHING CASINO
                 PERSONNEL AND TRACKING INTERACTIONS WITH PLAYERS
                                       Related Applications
        This application is a Continuation-in-Part of U.S. Patent Application No. 14/263,577 for
Dispatch System Having Control Shared with Dispatched Service Providers, which was filed on
April 28, 2014, and a Continuation-in-Part of U.S. Patent Application No. 15/177,969 for
Automated Method for Servicing Electronic Gaming Machines, which was filed June 9, 2016,
which is a Continuation of U.S. Patent Application 14/755,268 for Method for Retrieving an
Identity Card Associated with an Electronic Gaming Machine, which was filed on June 30,
2015, now U.S. Patent 9,367,991, issued on June 14, 2016, which is a Continuation of U.S.
Patent Application No. 14/451,133 for Method for Creating an Electronic Log for Documenting
Entries into Gaming Machines, which was filed on August 4, 2014, now U.S. Patent 9,087,431,
issued on July 21, 2015, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/891,684,
filed October 16, 2013, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/862,697, filed August 6, 2013,
all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
        This application is related to applicant's Application No. 13/445,438 for Method and
Apparatus for Monitoring a Network of Gaming Machines and Dispatching Service Providers,
which was filed on April 12, 2012, and is hereby incorporated by reference.
        Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" and variations such as "comprises", "comprising" and "comprised" are to be
understood to imply the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
any other integer or group of integers.
                                                      1

        Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "include"
and variations such as "includes", "including" and "included" are to be understood to imply the
presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
group of integers.
                                       Field of the Invention
        This disclosure relates generally to dispatch systems in which a service provider is
dispatched to interact with a customer or a gaming device at which a customer is located.
                                            Background
        Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any reference to
information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is provided only for the
purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to the present invention, and is
not an acknowledgement or admission that any of that material forms part of the common
general knowledge in Australia or any other country as at the priority date of the application in
relation to which this specification has been filed.
        Gambling games may be implemented on gaming devices in casinos as well as being
provided over the Internet-at least in some jurisdictions. As a result, casinos compete against
online gaming for customers and also compete against each other. A casino offers a substantial
draw over gaming in isolation at home, namely the opportunity for social interaction with other
people, including the staff at the casino and other gamblers.
        Even so, at some casinos, it is possible for a player to come to the casino, spend several
hours playing a variety of gaming devices, and leave without interacting with another person in
any meaningful way. Other casinos, however, have recognized that loyalty may be earned by
providing each player with a welcoming and friendly reception each time he or she visits the
casino.
        The casinos that recognize the value in forming a strong social bond with players train
their employees to engage in a variety of behaviors to create and strengthen the relationship
between the casino and the player. In other words, they focus on providing a very high level of
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      2

customer attention. For example, casino groundskeepers are encouraged to smile and wave at
players entering the casino. Floor employees engage customers in friendly, patient conversation.
Beverage carts roam the floor and stop to serve any player who wishes a drink of their choosing.
New enrollees in the player-tracking club wear a badge that identifies their status to casino
employees who greet and welcome the new player to the casino and to the club.
        The casinos that focus on cementing a strong relationship with players are more
profitable than those that take a more hands off approach.
        But even small casinos may have hundreds of customers pass through in an evening.
Some customers will be new, some come infrequently, and some are regulars. As a result, even
a high-performing employee can be hard pressed to remember player names, prior interactions,
information about the player, any incidents related to the player, player preferences, etc.
Employees can be reluctant to greet customers because they are unable to remember whether
they have previously introduced themselves. And they may be unsure of what to say to a
customer.
                                             Summary
        In accordance with one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for
dispatching a casino agent to an identified player of an electronic gaming device on a network
of electronic gaming devices in a casino, the method comprising:
        enrolling players in a player-tracking club;
        associating each player with a physical object that is used by the player to associate him
or herself with an identified gaming device selected by the player for tracking the player's play
on the gaming device;
        creating a list of casino agents;
        providing at least some of the casino agents with a mobile computing device that is in
communication with a wireless network operatively connected to the network of electronic
gaming devices;
        storing the list in a memory connected to the network;
        receiving the physical object at a gaming device selected by one of the players;
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                     3

        detecting a communication on the network indicating receipt of the physical object at an
identified electronic gaming device;
        establishing a new gaming session for the player in response to the communication;
        determining when the last gaming session for the one player was established;
        if the time between the two gaming sessions is greater than a predefined duration,
generating a call to dispatch one of the casino agents to the gaming device selected by the one
player;
        automatically sending a call signal via the wireless network to the mobile computing
device carried by the one casino agent, the signal including data indicating the identified
electronic gaming device selected by the one player;
        receiving a call-acceptance signal responsive to an input on the mobile computing
device carried by the casino agent indicating that he or she has accepted the call;
        receiving a call-arrival signal responsive to an input on the mobile computing device
carried by the casino agent indicating that he or she has arrived at the identified gaming device;
        providing information from the player-tracking record for the one player on the mobile
computing device;
        logging each call that the casino agent has completed in which the one player was
associated with the gaming device to which the casino agent was dispatched;
        displaying information about the prior calls on the mobile computing device; and
        receiving a call-completion signal responsive to an input on the mobile computing
device carried by the casino agent indicating that he or she has interacted with the one player
and finished the call.
        In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method
for dispatching a casino agent on a call to an electronic gaming device on a network and to log
information regarding the call, the method comprising:
        storing a list in of casino agents in a memory connected to the network;
        storing records for each of a plurality of players in a memory connected to the network,
each record including information about one of the players;
        monitoring the network of electronic gaming devices via a network computing device;
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      4

         detecting at the network computing device a communication on the network indicating
that a player has actuated a circuit at one of the electronic gaming devices that associates the
player's record with the one electronic gaming device;
        generating a call to dispatch one of the casino agents to the one electronic gaming
device;
        transmitting a call signal to a mobile computing device carried by one of the casino
agents via a wireless network that is operatively connected to the network computing device;
        receiving an arrival signal at the network computing device in response to action taken
by the one casino agent via the mobile computing device indicating that the one casino agent
has arrived at the identified electronic gaming device;
        tracking the time between receipt of the arrival signal and receive of a finish signal in
response to action taken by the one casino agent via the mobile computing device indicating that
the one casino agent has finished the call;
        tracking the number of times the casino agent is dispatched on a call to the player;
         storing the number of times in the memory operatively connected to the network
computing device; and
         displaying the number of times on the casino agent's mobile computing device
        In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method
for dispatching a casino agent on a call to an electronic gaming device on a network and to log
information regarding the call, the method comprising:
         storing a plurality of player records in a memory operatively connected to the network;
        populating each record with information related to a different one of a plurality of
players;
         storing a unique code in a physical object associated with each player;
         associating one of the electronic gaming devices with a player whose code is detected on
the network at a selected one of the gaming devices at which the physical object is presented by
the player;
        tracking the player's play at the one gaming device and storing information about the
tracked play in the player's record;
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       5

        monitoring the network of electronic gaming devices via a network computing device;
        generating a call to dispatch one of the casino agents to the one gaming device when the
code is detected on the network;
        transmitting a call signal via a wireless network to a mobile computing device carried by
one of the casino agents;
        tracking the time between the call signal and a call acceptance signal that is generated in
response to an action taken by the casino agent at a user interface on the mobile computing
device;
        tracking the time between the call acceptance signal and a call arrival signal that is
generated in response to an action taken by the casino agent at the user interface on the mobile
computing device when the agent arrives at the one gaming device;
        tracking the time between the call arrival signal and a call finish signal that is generated
in response to an action taken by the casino agent at the user interface on the mobile computing
device;
        storing the tracked times in a memory operatively connected to the network computing
device;
        tracking the number of times a call signal has been generated for the one casino agent in
response to detecting the unique code for the player; and
        displaying the number on the mobile computing device.
        In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for
implementing one or more of the methods in accordance with the present invention.
                                     Brief Description of the Drawings
        The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to
the accompanying drawings, in which:
        Fig. 1A is a functional block diagram that illustrates a gaming device according to
embodiments of the invention.
        Fig. lB is an isometric view of the gaming device illustrated in Fig. 1A.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       6

        Figs. 2A, 2B, and 2C are detail diagrams of exemplary types of gaming devices according
to embodiments of the invention.
        Fig. 3 is a functional block diagram of networked gaming devices according to
embodiments of the invention.
        Fig. 4 is a schematic diagram illustrating an embodiment that incorporates the present
invention.
        Fig. 5 is a highly schematic diagram illustrating a plan view of how a casino floor is
divided into sections in accordance with an implementation of the present invention.
        Figs. 6-13 are images of iPod touch screens upon which an embodiment is implemented.
        Figs. 14-22 are images of iPad computer screens upon which an embodiment is
implemented.
        Fig. 23 is a schematic diagram similar to Fig. 4 illustrating another embodiment.
        Figs. 40, 54, 55, 57, 58, 60, and 61 are images of iPod touch screens upon which an
embodiment is implemented.
        Figs. 24-39, 41-53, 56, 59, and 62 are images of iPad touch screens upon which an
embodiment is implemented.
        Fig. 63 is a view of an embodiment in use.
        Figs. 64-84 are images of iPod touch screens depicting features relating to machine access.
        Figs. 85-86 are images of iPad screens depicting machine entry statistics.
        Figs. 87A, 87 B, 88A, 88B, and Fig. 89 are flow charts depicting operation.
        Figs. 90-134 are images of the screens of a mobile computing device upon which an
embodiment is implemented.
        Figs. 135-143 are images of the screens of a mobile computing device upon which other
embodiments are implemented.
        Figs. 144A and 144B together comprise a flow chart that describes some of the operation
of the embodiments shown in Figs. 135-143.
        Fig. 145 is a ticket having a code thereon for applying credits to and removing credits
from a gaming device.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       7

                                        Description of Embodiments
        Figs. 1A and 1B illustrate example gaming devices according to embodiments of the
invention.
        Referring to Figs. 1A and 1B, a gaming device 10 is an electronic gaming machine.
Although an electronic gaming machine or "slot" machine is illustrated, various other types of
devices may be used to wager monetarily based credits on a game of chance in accordance with
principles of the invention. The term "electronic gaming device" is meant to include various
devices such as electro-mechanical spinning-reel type slot machines, video slot machines, and
video poker machines, for instance. Other gaming devices may include computer-based gaming
machines, wireless gaming devices, multi-player gaming stations, modified personal electronic
gaming devices (such as cell phones), personal computers, server-based gaming terminals, and
other similar devices. Although embodiments of the invention will work with all of the gaming
types mentioned, for ease of illustration the present embodiments will be described in reference to
the electronic gaming machine 10 shown in Figs. 1A and 1B.
         The gaming device 10 includes a cabinet 15 housing components to operate the gaming
device 10. The cabinet 15 may include a gaming display 20, a base portion 13, a top box 18, and
a player interface panel 30. The gaming display 20 may include mechanical spinning reels (Fig.
2A), a video display (Figs. 2B and 2C), or a combination of both spinning reels and a video
display (not shown). The gaming cabinet 15 may also include a credit meter 27 and a coin-in or
bet meter 28. The credit meter 27 may indicate the total number of credits remaining on the
gaming device 10 that are eligible to be wagered. In some embodiments, the credit meter 27 may
reflect a monetary unit, such as dollars. However, it is often preferable to have the credit meter 27
reflect a number of 'credits,' rather than a monetary unit. The bet meter 28 may indicate the
amount of credits to be wagered on a particular game. Thus, for each game, the player transfers
the amount that he or she wants to wager from the credit meter 27 to the bet meter 28. In some
embodiments, various other meters may be present, such as meters reflecting amounts won,
amounts paid, or the like. In embodiments where the gaming display 20 is a video monitor, the
information indicated on the credit meters may be shown on the gaming display itself 20 (Fig.
2B).
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       8

         The base portion 13 may include a lighted panel 14, a coin return (not shown), and a
gaming handle 12 operable on a partially rotating pivot joint 11. The game handle 12 is
traditionally included on mechanical spinning-reel games, where the handle may be pulled toward
a player to initiate the spinning of reels 22 after placement of a wager. The top box 18 may
include a lighted panel 17, a video display (such as an LCD monitor), a mechanical bonus device
(not shown), and a candle light indicator 19. The player interface panel 30 may include various
devices so that a player can interact with the gaming device 10.
         The player interface panel 30 may include one or more game buttons 32 that can be
actuated by the player to cause the gaming device 10 to perform a specific action. For example,
some of the game buttons 32 may cause the gaming device 10 to bet a credit to be wagered during
the next game, change the number of lines being played on a multi-line game, cash out the credits
remaining on the gaming device (as indicated on the credit meter 27), or request service from
casino personnel, such as by lighting the candle 19. In addition, the player interface panel 30 may
include one or more game actuating buttons 33. The game actuating buttons 33 may initiate a
game with a pre-specified amount of credits. On some gaming devices 10 a "Max Bet" game
actuating button 33 may be included that places the maximum credit wager on a game and
initiates the game. The player interface panel 30 may further include a bill acceptor 37 and a
ticket printer 38. The bill acceptor 37 may accept and validate paper money or previously printed
tickets with a credit balance. The ticket printer 38 may print out tickets reflecting the balance of
the credits that remain on the gaming device 10 when a player cashes out by pressing one of the
game buttons 32 programmed to cause a 'cashout.' These tickets may be inserted into other
gaming machines or redeemed at a cashier station or kiosk for cash.
         The gaming device 10 may also include one or more speakers 26 to transmit auditory
information or sounds to the player. The auditory information may include specific sounds
associated with particular events that occur during game play on the gaming device 10. For
example, a particularly festive sound may be played during a large win or when a bonus is
triggered. The speakers 26 may also transmit "attract" sounds to entice nearby players when the
game is not currently being played.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                         9

        The gaming device 10 may further include a secondary display 25. This secondary
display 25 may be a vacuum fluorescent display (VFD), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a cathode
ray tube (CRT), a plasma screen, or the like. The secondary display 25 may show any
combination of primary game information and ancillary information to the player. For example,
the secondary display 25 may show player tracking information, secondary bonus information,
advertisements, or player selectable game options.
        The gaming device 10 may include a separate information window (not shown) dedicated
to supplying any combination of information related to primary game play, secondary bonus
information, player tracking information, secondary bonus information, advertisements or player
selectable game options. This window may be fixed in size and location or may have its size and
location vary temporally as communication needs change. One example of such a resizable
window is International Game Technology's "service window". Another example is Las Vegas
Gaming Incorporated's retrofit technology which allows information to be placed over areas of
the game or the secondary display screen at various times and in various situations.
        The gaming device 10 includes a microprocessor 40 that controls operation of the gaming
device 10. If the gaming device 10 is a standalone gaming device, the microprocessor 40 may
control virtually all of the operations of the gaming devices and attached equipment, such as
operating game logic stored in memory (not shown) as firmware, controlling the display 20 to
represent the outcome of a game, communicating with the other peripheral devices (such as the
bill acceptor 37), and orchestrating the lighting and sound emanating from the gaming device 10.
In other embodiments where the gaming device 10 is coupled to a network 50, as described
below, the microprocessor 40 may have different tasks depending on the setup and function of the
gaming device. For example, the microprocessor 40 may be responsible for running the base
game of the gaming device and executing instructions received over the network 50 from a bonus
server or player tracking server. In a server-based gaming setup, the microprocessor 40 may act
as a terminal to execute instructions from a remote server that is running game play on the gaming
device.
        The microprocessor 40 may be coupled to a machine communication interface (MCI) 42
that connects the gaming device 10 to a gaming network 50. The MCI 42 may be coupled to the
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      10

microprocessor 40 through a serial connection, a parallel connection, an optical connection, or in
some cases a wireless connection. The gaming device 10 may include memory 41 (MEM), such
as a random access memory (RAM), coupled to the microprocessor 40 and which can be used to
store gaming information, such as storing total coin-in statistics about a present or past gaming
session, which can be communicated to a remote server or database through the MCI 42. The
MCI 42 may also facilitate communication between the network 50 and the secondary display 25
or a player tracking unit 45 housed in the gaming cabinet 15.
         The player tracking unit 45 may include an identification device 46 and one or more
buttons 47 associated with the player tracking unit 45. The identification device 46 serves to
identify a player, by, for example, reading a player-tracking device, such as a player tracking
card that is issued by the casino to individual players who choose to have such a card. The
identification device 46 may instead, or additionally, identify players through other methods.
Player tracking systems using player tracking cards and card readers 46 are known in the art.
Briefly summarizing such a system, a player registers with the casino prior to commencing
gaming. The casino issues a unique player-tracking card to the player and opens a
corresponding player account that is stored on a server or host computer, described below with
reference to Fig. 3. The player account may include the player's name and mailing address and
other information of interest to the casino in connection with marketing efforts. Prior to playing
one of the gaming devices in the casino, the player inserts the player tracking card into the
identification device 46 thus permitting the casino to track player activity, such as amounts
wagered, credits won, and rate of play.
         To induce the player to use the card and be an identified player, the casino may award
each player points proportional to the money or credits wagered by the player. Players typically
accrue points at a rate related to the amount wagered, although other factors may cause the
casino to award the player various amounts. The points may be displayed on the secondary
display 25 or using other methods. In conventional player tracking systems, the player may take
his or her card to a special desk in the casino where a casino employee scans the card to
determine how many accrued points are in the player's account. The player may redeem points
for selected merchandise, meals in casino restaurants, or the like, which each have assigned
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      11

point values. In some player tracking systems, the player may use the secondary display 25 to
access their player tracking account, such as to check a total number of points, redeem points for
various services, make changes to their account, or download promotional credits to the gaming
device 10. In other embodiments, the identification device 46 may read other identifying cards
(such as driver licenses, credit cards, etc.) to identify a player and match them to a corresponding
player tracking account. Although Fig. 1A shows the player tracking unit 45 with a card reader as
the identification device 46, other embodiments may include a player tracking unit 45 with a
biometric scanner, PIN code acceptor, or other methods of identifying a player to pair the player
with their player tracking account.
         During typical play on a gaming device 10, a player plays a game by placing a wager
and then initiating a gaming session. The player may initially insert monetary bills or
previously printed tickets with a credit value into the bill acceptor 37. The player may also put
coins into a coin acceptor (not shown) or a credit, debit or casino account card into a card
reader/authorizer (not shown). In other embodiments, stored player points or special 'bonus
points' awarded to the player or accumulated and/or stored in a player account may be able to
be substituted at or transferred to the gaming device 10 for credits or other value. For example,
a player may convert stored loyalty points to credits or transfer funds from his bank account,
credit card, casino account or other source of funding. The selected source of funding may be
selected by the player at time of transfer, determined by the casino at the time of transfer or
occur automatically according to a predefined selection process. One of skill in the art will
readily see that this invention is useful with all gambling devices, regardless of the manner in
which wager value-input is accomplished.
         The credit meter 27 displays the numeric credit value of the money or other value
inserted, transferred, or stored dependent on the denomination of the gaming device 10. That is,
if the gaming device 10 is a nickel slot machine and a $20 bill inserted into the bill acceptor 37,
the credit meter will reflect 400 credits or one credit for each nickel of the inserted twenty
dollars. For gaming devices 10 that support multiple denominations, the credit meter 27 will
reflect the amount of credits relative to the denomination selected. Thus, in the above example,
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                         12

if a penny denomination is selected after the $20 is inserted the credit meter will change from
400 credits to 2000 credits.
         A wager may be placed by pushing one or more of the game buttons 32, which may be
reflected on the bet meter 28. That is, the player can generally depress a "bet one" button (one
of the buttons on the player interface panel 30, such as 32), which transfers one credit from the
credit meter 27 to the bet meter 28. Each time the button 32 is depressed an additional single
credit transfers to the bet meter 28 up to a maximum bet that can be placed on a single play of
the electronic gaming device 10. The gaming session may be initiated by pulling the gaming
handle 12 or depressing the spin button 33. On some gaming devices 10, a "max bet" button
(another one of the buttons 32 on the player interface panel 30) may be depressed to wager the
maximum number of credits supported by the gaming device 10 and initiate a gaming session.
         If the gaming session does not result in any winning combination, the process of placing
a wager may be repeated by the player. Alternatively, the player may cash out any remaining
credits on the credit meter 27 by depressing the "cash-out" button (another button 32 on the
player interface panel 30), which causes the credits on the credit meter 27 to be paid out in the
form of a ticket through the ticket printer 38, or may be paid out in the form of returning coins
from a coin hopper (not shown) to a coin return tray.
         If instead a winning combination (win) appears on the display 20, the award
corresponding to the winning combination is immediately applied to the credit meter 27. For
example, if the gaming device 10 is a slot machine, a winning combination of symbols 23 may
land on a played payline on reels 22. If any bonus games are initiated, the gaming device 10
may enter into a bonus mode or simply award the player with a bonus amount of credits that are
applied to the credit meter 27.
         Figs. 2A to 2C illustrate exemplary types of gaming devices according to embodiments of
the invention. Fig. 2A illustrates an example spinning-reel gaming machine 10A, Fig. 2B
illustrates an example video slot machine 10B, and Fig. 2C illustrates an example video poker
machine 1OC.
         Referring to Fig. 2A, a spinning-reel gaming machine 1OA includes a gaming display 20A
having a plurality of mechanical spinning reels 22A. Typically, spinning-reel gaming machines
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      13

 10A have three to five spinning reels 22A. Each of the spinning reels 22A has multiple symbols
23A that may be separated by blank areas on the spinning reels 22A, although the presence of
blank areas typically depends on the number of reels 22A present in the gaming device 1OA and
the number of different symbols 23A that may appear on the spinning reels 22A. Each of the
symbols 22A or blank areas makes up a "stop" on the spinning reel 22A where the reel 22A
comes to rest after a spin. Although the spinning reels 22A of various games 10A may have
various numbers of stops, many conventional spinning-reel gaming devices 1OA have reels 22A
with twenty two stops.
        During game play, the spinning reels 22A may be controlled by stepper motors (not
shown) under the direction of the microprocessor 40 (Fig. 1A). Thus, although the spinning-reel
gaming device 10A has mechanical based spinning reels 22A, the movement of the reels
themselves is electronically controlled to spin and stop. This electronic control is advantageous
because it allows a virtual reel strip to be stored in the memory 41 of the gaming device 10A,
where various "virtual stops" are mapped to each physical stop on the physical reel 22A. This
mapping allows the gaming device 1OA to establish greater awards and bonuses available to the
player because of the increased number of possible combinations afforded by the virtual reel
strips.
        A gaming session on a spinning reel slot machine 1OA typically includes the player
pressing the "bet-one" button (one of the game buttons 32A) to wager a desired number of credits
followed by pulling the gaming handle 12 (Figs. 1A, 1B) or pressing the spin button 33A to spin
the reels 22A. Alternatively, the player may simply press the "max-bet" button (another one of
the game buttons 32A) to both wager the maximum number of credits permitted and initiate the
spinning of the reels 22A. The spinning reels 22A may all stop at the same time or may
individually stop one after another (typically from left to right) to build player anticipation.
Because the display 20A usually cannot be physically modified, some spinning reel slot machines
 1OA include an electronic display screen in the top box 18 (Fig. 1B), a mechanical bonus
mechanism in the top box 18, or a secondary display 25 (Fig. 1A) to execute a bonus.
        Referring to Fig. 2B, a video gaming machine 1OB may include a video display 20B to
display virtual spinning reels 22B and various other gaming information 21B. The video display
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                         14

20B may be a CRT, LCD, plasma screen, or the like. It is usually preferable that the video display
20B be a touchscreen to accept player input. A number of symbols 23A appear on each of the
virtual spinning reels 22B. Although Fig. 2B shows five virtual spinning reels 22B, the flexibility
of the video display 20B allows for various reel 22B and game configurations. For example,
some video slot games 1OB spin reels for each individual symbol position (or stop) that appears
on the video display 20B. That is, each symbol position on the screen is independent of every
other position during the gaming sessions. In these types of games, very large numbers of pay
lines or multiple super scatter pays can be utilized since similar symbols could appear at every
symbol position on the video display 20B. On the other hand, other video slot games 1OB more
closely resemble the mechanical spinning reel games where symbols that are vertically adjacent to
each other are part of the same continuous virtual spinning reel 22B.
        Because the virtual spinning reels 22B, by virtue of being computer implemented, can
have almost any number of stops on a reel strip, it is much easier to have a greater variety of
displayed outcomes as compared to spinning-reel slot machines 1OA (Fig. 2A) that have a fixed
number of physical stops on each spinning reel 22A.
        With the possible increases in reel 22B numbers and configurations over the mechanical
gaming device 1OA, video gaming devices 1OB often have multiple paylines 24 that may be
played. By having more paylines 24 available to play, the player may be more likely to have a
winning combination when the reels 22B stop and the gaming session ends. However, since the
player typically must wager at least a minimum number of credits to enable each payline 24 to be
eligible for winning, the overall odds of winning are not much different, if at all, than if the player
is wagering only on a single payline. For example, in a five line game, the player may bet one
credit per payline 24 and be eligible for winning symbol combinations that appear on any of the
five played paylines 24. This gives a total of five credits wagered and five possible winning
paylines 24. If, on the other hand, the player only wagers one credit on one payline 24, but plays
five gaming sessions, the odds of winning would be identical as above: five credits wagered and
five possible winning paylines 24.
        Because the video display 20B can easily modify the image output by the video display
20B, bonuses, such as second screen bonuses are relatively easy to award on the video slot game
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       15

 1OB. That is, if a bonus is triggered during game play, the video display 20B may simply store
the resulting screen shot in memory and display a bonus sequence on the video display 20B.
After the bonus sequence is completed, the video display 20B may then retrieve the previous
screen shot and information from memory, and re-display that image.
         Also, as mentioned above, the video display 20B may allow various other game
information 21B to be displayed. For example, as shown in Fig. 2B, banner information may be
displayed above the spinning reels 22B to inform the player, perhaps, which symbol combination
is needed to trigger a bonus. Also, instead of providing a separate credit meter 27 (Fig. 1A) and
bet meter 28, the same information can instead be displayed on the video display 20B. In
addition, "soft buttons" 29B such as a "spin" button or "help/see pays" button may be built using
the touch screen video display 20B. Such customization and ease of changing the image shown
on the display 20B adds to the flexibility of the game 1OB.
         Even with the improved flexibility afforded by the video display 20B, several physical
buttons 32B and 33B are usually provided on video slot machines 1OB. These buttons may
include game buttons 32B that allow a player to choose the number of paylines 24 he or she
would like to play and the number of credits wagered on each payline 24. In addition, a max bet
button (one of the game buttons 32B) allows a player to place a maximum credit wager on the
maximum number of available paylines 24 and initiate a gaming session. A repeat bet or spin
button 33B may also be used to initiate each gaming session when the max bet button is not used.
         Referring to Fig. 2C, a video poker gaming device 1OC may include a video display 20C
that is physically similar to the video display 20B shown in Fig. 2B. The video display 20C may
show a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player information 21 C including a
paytable for various winning hands, as well as a plurality of player selectable soft buttons 29C.
The video display 20C may present a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player
information 21C including a number of player selectable soft (touch-screen) buttons 29C and a
paytable for various winning hands. Although the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 3C shows only
one hand of poker on the video display 20C, various other video poker machines 1OC may show
several poker hands (multi-hand poker). Typically, video poker machines 1OC play "draw" poker
in which a player is dealt a hand of five cards, has the opportunity to hold any combination of
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       16

those five cards, and then draws new cards to replace the discarded ones. All pays are usually
given for winning combinations resulting from the final hand, although some video poker games
 10C may give bonus credits for certain combinations received on the first hand before the draw.
In the example shown in Fig. 2C a player has been dealt two aces, a three, a six, and a nine. The
video poker game 1OC may provide a bonus or payout for the player having been dealt the pair of
aces, even before the player decides what to discard in the draw. Since pairs, three of a kind, etc.
are typically needed for wins, a player would likely hold the two aces that have been dealt and
draw three cards to replace the three, six, and nine in the hope of receiving additional aces or other
cards leading to a winning combination with a higher award amount. After the draw and
revealing of the final hand, the video poker game 1OC typically awards any credits won to the
credit meter.
         The player selectable soft buttons 29C appearing on the screen respectively correspond to
each card on the video display 20C. These soft buttons 29C allow players to select specific cards
on the video display 20C such that the card corresponding to the selected soft button is "held"
before the draw. Typically, video poker machines 1OC also include physical game buttons 32C
that correspond to the cards in the hand and may be selected to hold a corresponding card. A
deal/draw button 33C may also be included to initiate a gaming session after credits have been
wagered (with a bet button 32C, for example) and to draw any cards not held after the first hand is
displayed.
        Although examples of a spinning reel slot machine 10A, a video slot machine 1OB, and a
video poker machine 1OC have been illustrated in Figs. 2A-2C, gaming machines and various
other types of gaming devices known in the art are contemplated and are within the scope of the
invention.
        Fig. 3 is a block diagram illustrating networked gaming devices according to embodiments
of the invention. Referring to Fig. 3, multiple electronic gaming devices (EGMs) 70, 71, 72, 73,
74, and 75 may be coupled to one another and coupled to a remote server 80 through a network
50. For ease of understanding, gaming devices or EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75 are generically
referred to as EGMs 70-75. The term EGMs 70-75, however, may refer to any combination of
one or more of EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75. Additionally, the gaming server 80 may be
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       17

coupled to one or more gaming databases 90. These gaming network 50 connections may allow
multiple gaming devices 70-75 to remain in communication with one another during particular
gaming modes such as tournament play or remote head-to-head play. Although some of the
gaming devices 70-75 coupled on the gaming network 50 may resemble the gaming devices 10,
 10A, 1OB, and 10C shown in Figs. lA-lB and 2A-2C, other coupled gaming devices 70-75 may
include differently configured gaming devices. For example, the gaming devices 70-75 may
include traditional slot machines 75 directly coupled to the network 50, banks of gaming devices
70 coupled to the network 50, banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to the network through a bank
controller 60, wireless handheld gaming machines 72 and cell phones 73 coupled to the gaming
network 50 through one or more wireless routers or antennas 61, personal computers 74 coupled
to the network 50 through the internet 62, and banks of gaming devices 71 coupled to the network
through one or more optical connection lines 64. Additionally, some of the traditional gaming
devices 70, 71, and 75 may include electronic gaming tables, multi-station gaming devices, or
electronic components operating in conjunction with non-gaming components, such as automatic
card readers, chip readers, and chip counters, for example.
         Gaming devices 71 coupled over an optical line 64 may be remote gaming devices in a
different location or casino. The optical line 64 may be coupled to the gaming network 50
through an electronic to optical signal converter 63 and may be coupled to the gaming devices 71
through an optical to electronic signal converter 65. The banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to
the network 50 may be coupled through a bank controller 60 for compatibility purposes, for local
organization and control, or for signal buffering purposes. The network 50 may include serial or
parallel signal transmission lines and carry data in accordance with data transfer protocols such as
Ethernet transmission lines, Rs-232 lines, firewire lines, USB lines, or other communication
protocols. Although not shown in Fig. 3, substantially the entire network 50 may be made of fiber
optic lines or may be a wireless network utilizing a wireless protocol such as IEEE 802.11 a, b, g,
or n, Zigbee, RF protocols, optical transmission, near-field transmission, or the like.
         As mentioned above, each gaming device 70-75 may have an individual processor 40 (Fig.
 1A) and memory 41 to run and control game play on the gaming device 70-75, or some of the
gaming devices 70-75 may be terminals that are run by a remote server 80 in a server based
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      18

gaming environment. Server based gaming environments may be advantageous to casinos by
allowing fast downloading of particular game types or themes based on casino preference or
player selection. Additionally, tournament based games, linked games, and certain game types,
such as BINGO or keno may benefit from at least some server 80 based control.
         Thus, in some embodiments, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be dedicated
to communications regarding specific game or tournament play. In other embodiments, however,
the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be part of a player tracking network. For player
tracking capabilities, when a player inserts a player tracking card in the card reader 46 (Fig. 1A),
the player tracking unit 45 sends player identification information obtained on the card reader 46
through the MCI 42 over the network 50 to the player tracking server 80, where the player
identification information is compared to player information records in the player database 90 to
provide the player with information regarding their player account or other features at the gaming
device 10 where the player is wagering. Additionally, multiple databases 90 and/or servers 80
may be present and coupled to one or more networks 50 to provide a variety of gaming services,
such as both game/tournament data and player tracking data.
         The various systems described with reference to FIGs 1-3 can be used in a number of
ways. For instance, the systems can be used to track data about various players. The tracked data
can be used by the casino to provide additional benefits to players, such as extra bonuses or extra
benefits such as bonus games and other benefits as described above. These added benefits further
entice the players to play at the casino that provides the benefits.
         Turning now to Fig. 4, indicated generally at 92 is a system constructed according to the
present invention. In the present implementation, the system is distributed among several
locations, primarily a casino-indicated generally at 94-and an offsite location-indicated
generally at 96. Among other things, system 92 collects data, processes it, and creates
communications at the offsite location that are directed to casino agents located at casino 94,
typically employees such as slot attendants and technicians, security personnel, beverage servers,
and the managers and supervisors of the foregoing. Because the present implementation of system
92 is deployed on several networks, it will be appreciated that the entire system could be located
in one place or distributed along and among various networks. The solid lines connecting
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       19

components in Fig. 4 indicate hard-wired connections, but these connections may readily be made
via wireless connections.
        As an alternative, the present invention may be readily implemented with all of the
components in system 92 being located at casino 94, as shown in Fig. 4, or distributed via one or
more networks. In the present implementation, offsite location 96 is built, operated, and
maintained by a third party vendor to casino 94. The functionality described below may be
provided to a number of different casinos, like casino 94, all responsive to software operating at
location 96 via multiple, reliable Internet connections to each of the various casinos. Such
casinos could have the same or different ownership.
         Considering first offsite location 96, a Database Server 98 collects data from the casino
and stores it in a manner that will be later described in connection with the operation of system 92.
An Application Server 100 provides support for software applications, to be shortly described,
that are installed on various computing devices included in system 92. The application server
provides the software applications with services such as security, data services, transaction
support, and load balancing.
        In the present implementation, many communications between offsite location 96 and
casino 94 are conducted through the Internet 62 via a reliable, high-speed connection. In the
casino, a wireless router 61 provides a wireless network for various computing devices as will
be shortly described. In the present implementation, the wireless network is implemented using
the IEEE 802.11 standard.
        Included on the wireless network implemented via router 61 are mobile computing
devices, in the present implementation tablet computers 102, 104, made by Apple Inc. and sold
under the iPadTM brand. There may be many other such iPad computers that are omitted here to
simplify the drawing. The iPad computers may be used, as will be described, to monitor the
status of service calls on the casino floor, either within an area or department or casino wide.
These are typically carried by a casino agent who has responsibility for supervising others in the
process of making such service calls, but the iPad computer also receives notifications for
service calls that may require a supervisor, i.e., the carrier of the iPad computer. The types of
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       20

notifications and responses that may be received and made, respectively, on the iPad computer
is described in more detail in connection with the operation of system 92.
         In addition to iPad computers 102, 104, a plurality of mobile wireless computing devices
 106, 108, 110, 112 are also connected to the network implemented via wireless router 61. In the
present implementation computing devices 106, 108, 110, 112, are also made by Apple Inc. and
sold under the iPod touchTM brand. There may be many other such iPod touch devices that are
omitted here to simplify the drawing. The iPod touch devices are typically carried by a casino
employee, such as a floor attendant or slot technician, to communicate regarding service calls
on the casino floor, either within an area or department or both. The types of notifications and
responses that may be received and made, respectively, on the iPod touch devices is also
described in more detail in connection with the operation of system 92.
         A Server 114, also located at casino 94 in the present implementation, is connected to
the Internet 62 and to network 50, which is shown in Fig. 3 and described above. In many
casinos, a management system, such as IGT AdvantageTM made and sold by IGT, resides on
network 50. It collects data from each gaming machine on network 50 and stores the collected
data, e.g., in database 90 (Fig. 3). Such data includes, among other things, an event list that
detects many different types of activity at each of the slot machines on the network. The
detected activity for our purposes relates to significant jackpots; the press of a service button by
a player; and any malfunction, such as a bill jam, empty ticket paper, etc. This data containing
this information is transmitted from server 114 via Internet 62 to offsite location 96. In the
present implementation, server 114 accesses information on database 90 via network 50. Server
 114 collects, among other things, call codes, which are listed under the Call Code heading in the
first column of Table 1 below. Each call code corresponds to a general category of service
requirement, shown under the Call Type column, and a particular service issue within that
category, shown under the Call Name column. Three categories of responders appear in the
remaining columns of Table 1. These are the job positions that may respond to this type of call
under certain conditions, which are discussed further below. The information in this table is
stored on database server 98 in Fig. 4. The data can either be stored there by using a computer
connected to the database or to network 50 and storing there or it can be entered via a suitable
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      21

computing device such as a desktop or laptop computer. In the present embodiment it may also
be stored or altered via one or more of iPad computers, like iPad computers 102, 104, by a user
having sufficient permissions to enter and alter this information.
        In an alternative embodiment, dedicated devices are installed within each gaming
machine to communicate with the machine's data ports, or the lamp illumination signal, and
transfer that information, through wired or wireless networks, to a central event list maintained
on the network, such as database server 98.
        In still another embodiment, casino agents manually enter information about incident
occurrence that is stored on the network, e.g., on database server 98. This information may be
gathered from the machine signal light, from manual inspection of the machine, or both.
        Regardless of the embodiment, all detectable events on network 50 may be collected and
used to generate a call as described herein. For example, some player tracking systems permit
player help requests to which responses could be made according to the present system. Many
gaming machines include Help, Change, and Drink Request buttons, which may also generate a
detected event.
  CALL          CALL TYPE      CALL NAME      PRIMARY           SUBSTITUTE        ESCALATION
  CODE                                        RESPONDER         RESPONDER         RESPONDERS
  13280700      General Tilts  Bill Acceptor   Slot Technician  Slot Tech         Slot Technician
                               Full                             Supervisor
                                               Slot Supervisor  Slot Manager      Slot Technician
                                                                                  Supervisor
                                               Security         Security Manager  Security Supervisor
                                               Supervisor
                                                                                  Slot Manager
                                                                                  Security Manager
  13280900      General Tilts  Bill Acceptor   Slot Technician  Slot Tech         Slot Technician
                               Hardware                         Supervisor
                               Failure
                                                                                  Slot Technician
                                                                                  Supervisor
                                                                                  Slot Manager
  13285100      General Tilts  Progressive     Slot Technician  Slot Tech         Slot Technician
                               Link Failure                     Supervisor
                                                                                  Slot Technician
                                                                                  Supervisor
                                                                                  Slot Manager
  13328001      Jackpots       Jackpot         See JP Levels    See JP Levels     Slot Technician
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      22

CALL     CALL TYPE     CALL NAME      PRIMARY         SUBSTITUTE        ESCALATION
CODE                                  RESPONDER       RESPONDER         RESPONDERS
                       Pending W2G
                                                                        Security Officer
                                                                        Players Club
                                                                        Beverage Server
                                                                        Slot Supervisor
20001303 Hand/Short    FJP Hand Pay   Floor Attendant Slot Supervisor   Slot Technician
         Pays          Ticket
20001305 Hand/Short    FJP Short Pay  Floor Attendant Slot Supervisor   Slot Supervisor
         Pays          Ticket
                                                                        Slot Manager
                                                                        Security Officer
                                                                        Player Services
                                                                                 Beverage
                                                                        Serve
13328100 Hand/Short    Cancel Credits Floor Attendant Slot Supervisor   Slot Technician
         Pays
                                                                        Slot Supervisor
                                                                        Slot Manager
                                                                        Security Officer
                                                                        Player Service
                                                                        Beverage Server
10819703 Hand/Short    Unknown Hand   Floor Attendant Slot Supervisor   Slot Technician
         Pays          Pay
                                                                        Slot Supervisor
                                                                        Slot Manager
                                                                        Security Officer
                                                                        Player Services
                                                                        Beverage Server
13282700 General Tilts Low Battery    Slot Technician Slot Tech         Slot Technician
                                                      Supervisor
                                                                        Floor Attendant
                                                                        Slot Technician
                                                                        Supervisor
                                                                      | Slot Supervisor
13288100 Manual        Change Light   Floor Attendant Slot Technician   Slot Technician
                                                                        Slot Supervisor
                                                                        Security Officer
                                                                        Player Services
                                                                        Beverage Server
13283800 General Tilts Reel           Slot Technician Slot Tech         Slot Technician
                       Disconnected                   Supervisor
                                                                        Floor Attendant
                                                                        Slot Technician
                                                                        Supervisor
                                                                      | Slot Supervisor
20000202 General Tilts BE2 Offline    Slot Technician Slot Tech         Slot Technician
                                                      Supervisor
                                                                        Floor Attendant
                                                      Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                             23

 CALL          CALL TYPE        CALL NAME        PRIMARY         SUBSTITUTE         ESCALATION
 CODE                                            RESPONDER       RESPONDER          RESPONDERS
                                                                                    Slot Technician
                                                                                    Supervisor
                                                                                    Slot Supervisor
                                                                                    Slot Manager
  13288400     Printer/Paper    Printer Paper    Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Technician
                                Low
  13286500     Printer/Paper    Printer Paper    Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Beverage Server
                                Out
  13288800     Printer/Paper    Printer Carriage Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Technician
                                Jam                                                 Supervisor
  13288500     Printer/Paper    Printer Off      Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Manager
                                                                                    Slot Supervisor
  13280000     General Tilts    General Tilt     Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Technician
                                                                                    Beverage Server
                                                                                    Slot Technician
                                                                                    Supervisor
                                                                                    Slot Manager
                                                                                    Slot Supervisor
  13283200     General Tilts    Reel Tilt        Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Technician
  13283300     General Tilts    Reel Tilt 1      Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Beverage Server
  13283400     General Tilts    Reel Tilt 2      Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Technician
                                                                                    Supervisor
  13283500     General  Tilts   Reel Tilt 3      Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Manager
  13283600     General  Tilts   Reel Tilt 4      Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Supervisor
  13283700     General  Tilts   Reel Tilt 5      Floor Attendant Slot Technician  |
  13280800     General  Tilts   Bill Acceptor    Floor Attendant Slot Technician    Slot Technician
                                Jam
                                                                                    Beverage Server
                                                                                    Slot Technician
                                                                                    Supervisor
                                                                                    Slot Manager
                                                                                    Slot Supervisor
                                                     Table 1
        Turning now to Fig. 5, indicated generally at 116 is a highly schematic diagram
depicting electronic gaming machines that are included on network 50 in Fig. 3. Also included
are rectangles shown in dashed lines indicating different floor areas where subsets of the
gaming machines are located. In the upper left hand corner of each rectangle is a unique
identifier for that particular floor area and the subset of machines contained therein. Although
each area is depicted as having the same number of machines, the areas could be designated to
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        24

have any number, and the numbers from one area to another could also be different. Fig. 5,
however, is sufficient to illustrate the general concept.
        Another table, not shown herein, is stored on database server 98 along with Table 1. The
additional table includes a list of each of the floor areas, Al, A2, A3, A4, B1,  . . . etc.
Associated with each floor area is a unique machine number that identifies each machine within
each area. As will be seen, this enables system 92 to dispatch assistance to the location and
machine that requires service.
        Table 2, shown below shows adjoining areas that are associated with each of sections,
like section A, which includes Al, A2, A3, and A4. Each of the other sections is listed with its
respective associated adjoining areas. As will be seen, when a service provider is not available
or one is but requires assistance in his or her section, service providers may be drawn from
adjoining areas. This table defines the areas from which sections may draw support if needed.
As with other data stored on the network implemented via router 61, it may be entered via an
iPad computer by a user who has sufficient permissions to do so.
            Section Assignment                                   Section Association
        A                                       BI, B3, El, Dl, D2
        B                                       A2, A4, D2, El, E2, F1, C1, C3
        C                                       B2, B4, E2, Fl, F2
        D                                       A3, A4, B3, El, E3
        E                                       D4, D2, A4, B3, B4, C3, Fl, F3
        F                                       E4, E2, B4, C3, C4
                                                   Table 2
        The following Table 3 is a list of job positions and associated departments. Persons
holding these jobs are qualified and eligible to respond to defined service requests, as will be
further described. This table is also entered in database 98 and may be entered and altered in the
same fashion as described above.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       25

                           Position                                        Department
        Floor Attendant                                        Slots
        Slot Manager                                           Slots
        Slot Supervisor                                        Slots
        Slot Technician                                        Slots
        Slot Technician Supervisor                             Slots
        Security Officer                                       Security
        Security Manager                                       Security
        Security Supervisor                                    Security
        Beverage Server                                        Beverage
        Beverage Manager                                       Beverage
        Beverage Supervisor                                    Beverage
        Host                                                   Marketing
        Executive Host                                         Marketing
        Club Manager                                           Marketing
        Club Supervisor                                        Marketing
                                                 Table 3
        The casino may set goal times within which it is desirable to resolve different kinds of
service needs. Table 4 depicts some exemplary goal times, which may be varied by casino
personnel, via one of the iPad computers, with sufficient permissions to do so. Also included is
a commute goal time, which is the time necessary for a service provider to travel to the gaming
machine in need of service after accepting a call. This too may be set or changed by the casino.
                                                               Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                    26

                Call Type                         Timer                         Goal Time
         Commute                          Commute                         2 minutes
         Completion                       Completion                      10 minutes
         Jackpots                         Completion                      12 minutes
         Manual                           Completion                      5 minutes
         General Tilts                    Completion                      10 minutes
         Printer/Paper                    Completion                      10 minutes
         Hand/Short Pay                   Completion                      12 minutes
                                                 Table 4
         Some types of responses require further categorization of employees who may respond,
even for the same type of event. For example, some jackpots are so large that the machine does
not pay them out. Different casinos may have different policies regarding what jackpot amounts
must be hand paid, how many people need to be present, and the job position(s) of the person or
persons who are required to be present, depending on the jackpot size. The following Table 5
provides an example of one casino's requirements. The information in this table is also stored
on database 98. As is known in the art when a call code for a jackpot appears on the event list,
the amount of the jackpot and the machine number are both associated therewith. This call code
is the fourth row in Table 1.
                                                               Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                    27

Jackpot Levels      Amounts                   Primary Responders          Substitute Responder
                                              Floor Attendant             Slot Supervisor
        1           $.01-$2,499.99            Floor Attendant             Slot Supervisor
                                              Floor Attendant             Slot Supervisor
        2           $2,500.00-$9,999.99       Slot Supervisor             Slot Manager
                                              Floor Attendant             Slot Supervisor
                                              Slot Supervisor             Slot Manager
        3           $10,000.00-$24,999.99     Security Supervisor         Security Manager
                                              Floor Attendant             Slot Supervisor
                                              Slot Supervisor             Slot Manager
        4           $25,000 and Up            Security Supervisor         Security Manager
                                                Table 5
        Additional consideration will now be given to the manner in which system 92 operates.
When an employee arrives for a shift, he or she logs in. As mentioned above, supervisors and
managers typically use an iPad computer, which provides additional functionality over the iPod
touch, device which the front line employees, such as floor attendant, slot technician, or
beverage server typically use. Any employee, however, could use either device.
        When a user arrives for work and logs in, he or she is first brought to an assignment
screen where they indicate whether they are reporting to work under the primary or secondary
positions. Each employee has a record that may entered via a supervisor iPad computer as
described above. Employees are often trained and capable of performing more than one role.
For example, a Floor Attendant might also be qualified to serve as a Slot Supervisor. In any
event, employees whose record indicates both a primary and secondary position are required to
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                   28

indicate in which of those capacities they are reporting at the start of a shift. An employee with
only one role is automatically assigned to that role.
         Next, the employee indicates in which section, e.g., A, B, C. etc. of the casino floor they
are assigned to work. Their screen then shows their position, the section, and the supervisor to
whom they will be reporting for the shift. Turning now to Fig. 6, indicated generally at 118 is a
screen of an iPod touch mobile computing device. The iPod touch device is wirelessly
connected to router 61 and forms a part of that network. The date, time, and employee's name
appear in the top bar. At the bottom of screen 118, a slider switch appears for the employee to
indicate whether he or she is on break. The switch is turned on at the beginning of a break,
which initiates a break timer, and turned off at the end, which stops the timer. Table 6 below is a
list of permissible break times by job position. A break touch-screen slider button 120 enables
the system-and the employee's supervisor-to see when he or she is on break. The Table 6
break times permit the supervisor to receive a notification if the time is exceeded.
                                                   Breaks
                                                                                  Break Time in
            Department                         Position                           Minutes
         Slots                       Floor Attendant                          15
         Slots                       Slot Manager                             15
         Slots                       Slot Supervisor                          15
         Slots                       Slot Technician                          15
         Slots                       Slot Technician Supervisor               15
         Security                    Security Officer                        30
         Security                    Security Manager                        30
         Security                    Security Supervisor                     30
         Beverage                    Beverage Server                         20
         Beverage                    Beverage Manager                        20
         Beverage                    Beverage Supervisor                     20
         Marketing                   Host                                    25
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      29

        Marketing                       Executive Host                        25
        Because the number of workers logged in is known to the system, the system can review
historical data and make determinations about the number of employees and their qualifications
that should be logged in and on duty for a particular shift. For example, the numbers and
qualifications can vary significantly from a Sunday morning, to Monday evening, to Saturday
night, etc. As a result, the system can automatically create and publish via the Internet or
otherwise, work schedules, showing total employees, by area, by job type, by supervisor, etc.
And it can notify each individual about the times for which they have been scheduled to work.
Of course, each employee will be associated with historical data showing hours and times
worked as well as shifts or times that the employee is not eligible to work. As a result, the
system will not overschedule or schedule during times when the employee has not agreed to
work.
        There are 5 call status screens that may be presented to a user who is logged in on one of
the iPod touch device. First, is a No Call screen (not shown). This screen indicates that there are
no calls waiting, and presents a "Give me a Task" button to the user. Tasks are different types of
service, such as routine maintenance, that can be performed at any time. The manner of
accepting, performing and completing a Task is described in more detail below.
        When a call is received by a person who is logged in to his or her iPod touch device, the
Pending Call screen is presented as shown in Fig. 6. Before discussing the various ways in
which the employee can respond to a pending call, consideration will first be given to how the
pending call comes to be presented on the iPod touch screen as shown in Fig. 6.
        First, it will be recalled that a table showing the area (as shown in Fig. 5) in which each
uniquely numbered machine resides is stored on the network. When a call of the type shown in
Table 1 is generated by the event list for an identified gaming machine, the stored table is used
to identify the Fig. 5 designated area where the problem arises, e.g., bill acceptor full on
machine 782 in area A3. System 92 next consults the information regarding the individuals who
are logged in, their job assignment, and the Fig. 5 area section in which they are working.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       30

         If a person qualified to take the task is logged in, assigned to the section in question, and
not on break, that call is automatically directed via the wireless network to his or her iPod touch
device thus generating the Pending Call screen in Fig. 6. If there is no such person, system 92
begins searching for qualified people who are logged in, not on break, and in an area associated
with the section in which the call arose, as shown in Table 2. If no such person exists there, the
system automatically returns its search again to the section in which the call arose and looks for
a substitute responder, as shown in Table 1. In the present example, there are several primary
responders for a full bill acceptor. If none are available in section A, persons with those job
titles are searched for in the areas associated with section A in Table 2. If those aren't available,
the search returns to section A for a substitute responder, as shown in Table 1. Finally, if none
of those are available, the search again returns to the areas associated with section A, as shown
in Table 2, and available substitute responders are looked for there. System 92 thus initiates a
potentially four-part process: primary responder in section, primary responder in associated
section, substitute responder in section, and substitute responder in associated section. As this
process proceeds, whoever is first encountered who is available to take the call will be presented
with an audible notification and the Pending Call screen shown in Fig. 6. In this manner, the
most person most qualified and closest to the machine requiring service will be notified via the
Pending Call screen.
         Once that person receives the audible notification and is presented with the Fig. 6
screen, he or she can accept or defer the call by sliding a touch-screen switch 122 on bar 124.
Alternatively, this notification might comprise a vibration of the communication device, a visual
indication, or any other type of indication sufficient to alert the person that a call is pending.
When moved to the uppermost position, the user can depress a touch-screen accept button 125,
thus indicating to the system that he or she has accepted the call and is on the way to the
machine number displayed in field 126. Depressing button 125 initiates two timers, a commute
timer, which tracks the time from acceptance until arrival the machine indicated on the iPod
touch device, and a completion timer, which tracks the total time it takes to commute to the
machine and complete the required service.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       31

         Also appearing on the screen is a description of the service that will be provided, in this
case hand pay of a jackpot in the amount of $2000, shown in field 128. In this case, because
multiple employees have been notified about this service requirement, the names of the other
employees who have accepted the call appear in field 130.
         Although not visible in the drawings, a bar 132 on which break touch-screen slider
button 120 is located, can appear as one of three colors: green, yellow, or red, which provides an
indication of the call level. The colors are based on a calculation made by system 92. Every 15
minutes the system looks for the number of dispatched users, i.e., those who have accepted a
call. It will then compare the total number of users logged in, for each department shown in Fig.
3, with those who are currently on calls in progress. If, e.g., only 40% are on calls, bar 132 will
appear as green, if 41-65% are on calls, the bar is yellow and if over 65%, red. In addition, the
audible tone that notifies a user of a call changes from a peaceful slow tone when green, to a
more forceful patterned tone when yellow, and to an urgent, high-intensity tone when red.
         Doing so informs the employee of the speed at which commuting and service work
should be conducted and the level of attention the employee can give to a player who may be at
the machine where service is requested. If the floor is relatively slow, it is desirable for the
employee to talk with the player and interact as much as the player might want. If more busy,
such interaction needs to be more limited and if in the red zone, such interaction might need to
be minimal to keep up with the service calls.
         When button 122 is moved up and Accept button 125 is depressed, the next screen
appears as shown in Fig. 7, namely the Call screen. This is an indication that the employee has
accepted the call and is traveling to the machine needing service. For this screen, the buttons at
the top and bottom of slider switch 122 change from Accept and Defer to Arrive button 134 and
Quit button 136, respectively. When the employee arrives at the machine identified on the
screen, he or she can move slider 122 to its upper position and press Arrive button 134. This
notifies the system that the employee is at the machine and ready to begin the requested service.
It also stops the commute timer and stores that time with the employee's record on the network.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      32

        Alternatively, at any time prior to pressing Arrive button 134, the employee can move
switch 122 down and press Quit button 136. This removes the employee from the job, and the
system initiates the process for locating and dispatching another employee as described above.
        But if the employee presses Arrive button 134, the screen shown in Fig. 8 is presented
with new buttons at the top and bottom of slider switch 122 appearing. These are Complete
button 138, which replaces Arrive button 134, and Escalate button 140, which replaces Quit
button 136. Once at the machine, if the employee successfully completes the job, he or she
slides switch 122 to the top and presses Complete button 138. This stops the completion timer
with that time being stored with the employee's record.
        But if Escalate button 140 is depressed, the screen in Fig. 9 appears. This permits the
employee to notify, via system 92, that the problem cannot be resolved without further
assistance from someone who has a different job description or higher authority than the
employee who escalated the call. In the Fig. 9 screen, the employee can check the box by one or
more of the identified job types. Alternatively, an employee to whom the call is escalated may
be selected automatically based on qualifications, experience, rating (by players or the casino),
etc. Once so selected, the system notifies the employee to whom the call is escalated in a
manner similar to notification for a pending call. In the present embodiment, calls are escalated
to those with the job types shown in Table 1 under Escalation Responders. In other words, each
type of call in Table 1 has predefined job categories who respond to requests to escalate a call.
Fig. 9 lists each of the job categories listed under Escalation Responders in Table 1. An escalate
slider button 141 is swept to the right to effect the call.
         Once the employee selects one or more of the service providers in Fig. 9 and swipes
button 141, a final screen appears (not shown). The Escalate button 140 appears again, though
this time at the top of bar 124, as well as a Reassignment button 142 at the bottom of bar 124.
Thus, the employee can escalate yet again by summoning further service providers (as a result
of sliding button 122 upwardly), or can reassign (by sliding button 122 down), i.e., bow out of
further service on this call, leaving it to those who appeared with him, or those who responded
to the escalation call or calls.
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      33

        Figs. 10-12 detail screens that are available for an employee carrying the iPod touch
device to summon help when he or she comes upon a situation that requires skills or a job
qualification that the employee does not have. In Fig. 10 slider switch 122 on bar 124 may be
moved to one of two positions-up to 911 or down to 311. After so moving, as with the other
switch options, the button to which switch 122 is moved must be depressed to call up the next
screen. When the switch is moved to its uppermost position and the 911 button is pressed, the
screen in Fig. 11 appears. When the switch is moved to its lowermost position and the 311
button is pressed, the screen in Fig. 12 appears.
        Considering first the 911 screen in Fig. 11, the employee is presented with a plurality of
possible life-threatening emergencies. In Fig. 11, the employee has touched a box 146, which
appears by the term Medical. The box is selected and so indicates by displaying a check mark
therein. Next, the employee uses the iPod touch text feature to write a location in a text box 148.
This is implemented using a touchscreen keypad that operates in a fashion similar to those
found on smartphones. After so entering the location in text box 148, the employee hits a send
button 150, which transmits the nature of the 911 emergency and the location via wireless
network implemented by router 61 to offsite location 96. There it is processed and sent, also via
the wireless network, to the person best able to respond depending on the nature of the
emergency and its location.
        If in Fig. 10, slider switch 122 is moved down to the 311 button, and that button is then
depressed, the screen in Fig. 12 appears. This screen also permits the user to select the nature of
emergency by touching one of three buttons 152, 154, 156. Unlike the 911 panel in Fig. 11, the
user may also select responders, such as those listed in touch panels beneath buttons 152, 154,
 156. Here, the user has selected button 152 and checked the box adjacent the Slot Supervisor to
indicate the appropriate responder. As with Fig. 11, the user can specify the location of the
concern in text box 148 and then press send button 150. As a result, the system notifies the best
position and most qualified person to respond.
        Of course, there are times in a casino that are slow or where there may be more
employees than required to handle calls as described above. During these times, an employee
who does not have any pending calls, as in Fig. 6, can request to be assigned to a task. A task is
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                     34

a job that can be done in a relatively large window, such as preventative maintenance of a game
or replacement of a monitor. As previously mentioned, the "No Call" screen (not shown)
appears when the employee is not being called to one of service jobs set forth in Table 1. As
also discussed, the "No Call" screen includes a "Give me a Task" button, which, when pressed,
displays a screen like that shown in Fig. 13. The employee may check one of the boxes shown
opposite the listed tasks such as tasks 158, 160, etc. Here the employee has checked the box by
"Upgrade Validator 02-05-06," the 6-digit number being a machine number that identifies the
gaming machine where the work is to be done. Once selected, a screen similar to Fig. 7 appears
which permits the employee to indicate his or her arrival at the machine or to quit the job, as
described above in connection with responding to calls. Thereafter, a screen similar to Fig. 8
appears, allowing the employee to indicate the task is complete or to escalate it, also as
described in connection with calls above.
        Tasks can be scheduled automatically by examining the frequency with which calls are
generated on specific machines or for specific issues on a machine. Because the system stores
and analyzes data from all calls and other communications, it can be reviewed to spot a
particular issue. For example, if bills jam frequently on the same machine, that bill acceptor can
automatically be scheduled for preventative maintenance to determine if it needs servicing
beyond clearing the jam.
        Turning now to Fig. 14, indicated generally at 162 is an image of an iPad screen on one
of iPad computers 102, 194 in Fig. 4. Like the iPod touch screens, the iPad screen is a touch
screen that permits a user to actuate buttons and make selections by touching the screen. Like
the iPod touch devices, a user may log in to an iPad computer using his or her user identification
and password. When logged in, the Casino Dashboard screen in Fig. 14 is first presented. As
mentioned above, the iPad computers are typically used by an employee to whom other
employees on the floor report to. As will be seen, the functionality provided by the iPad
computer permits the user to monitor status of employees, calls, and tasks, and to change
assignments when necessary or desirable.
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                     35

        A navigation bar 164 appears along the lower portion of screen 162. The icons in the bar
permit the user to select different screens as labeled beneath each icon. A rectangle 165
indicates that the Dashboard screen is currently selected.
        As with the iPod touches, a bar 166 changes between green, yellow, and red to indicate
how busy the floor is by department. In other words, bar 166 reflects how busy the user's area
of responsibility is. If logged in as a floor attendant, the bar will reflect the volume in the slot
department; if logged in as a beverage, server, it will reflect the volume there.
        A plurality of gages, like gages 168, 170, 172 are each color coded green, yellow, and
red. For example, gage 168 has a green arc 174, a yellow arc 176, and a red arc 178. Gage 168
indicates the average commute time to a call, and gage 172 indicates the average completion
time for a call. The gages in between gages 168, 172 indicate the average time to complete each
of the 5 categories of calls in Table 1. The casino can set goal completion times within the
system, e.g., jackpots in 15 minutes. If the average is, e.g., 11 minutes, the needle is in the green
zone; if 12-15 minutes, in the yellow zone; and above 15 minutes in the red zone. At a glance,
the supervisor can tell how well the staff is responding to calls by type relative to the casino
goals.
        An alerts section 180 displays notices including supervised staff who have exceeded
break times, calls dispatched where no one has accepted the call after a predefined time, and
changes in a staff status screen 182.
        Staff status screen 182 can show only the supervisor's staff, in response to touching the
"My Staff" tab on screen 182 or all staff logged in at the casino, in response to touching the
"Active Users" tab on screen 182. The supervisor can touch a name on the "My Staff" page,
which causes a dialog box to appear that permits the user to edit the employee profile, send a
text message to the employee, or force a logout (which would be desired if the employee lost his
or her iPod touch device). When an employee name is selected under the "Active Users" tab,
the user of screen 162 may send text messages to that employee.
        Fig. 15 indicates the "User Profile" selection in navigation bar 164. Using this screen,
the supervisor can add a new user to his or her department, including the information indicated
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       36

on the screen. The person so added is then available to appear on the "My Staff' list when
logged in.
         Fig. 16 is an example of the data that is associated with each user supervised. When a
name is selected from the list on the left, the average times appear on the right along with the
number of calls deferred, quit, and completed.
         In Fig. 17, the Sections button is selected in navigation bar 164. This is the page on
which section associations are entered as described in connection with Table 2. Fig. 17 depicts a
different floor from that described in Table 2 above. This permits a supervisor with the required
permissions to associate different sections of the casino with one another to permit staff to be
drawn from adjacent sections to answer a call. In Fig. 17, staff can be drawn from the sections
listed in the "Drawing from" list to respond to calls in section B08 when there is no responder in
B08 as described above. Sections can be dragged between the "Drawing from" and "Not
drawing from" list to reconfigure the associated sections from which staff may be drawn. The
sections to which responders in B08 may be called are listed under "Sections drawing from
B08."
         In Fig. 18, the Status box is selected in navigation bar 164. It breaks down all users by
section and permits the iPad user to perform a variety of functions. For example, employees
may ask to be on an Early Out List 183, shown on the screen in Fig. 18. If the floor is
adequately staffed the status screen can be used to select an individual's name on the list and
drag it to the logout box below. This sends a notice via the wireless network to his or her iPod
touch indicating that the employee may log out and leave. If, on the other hand, one section is
quite busy, the user can touch an employee's name and drag it to another section. A push
notification is sent to the employee notifying him or her of the reassignment. When an
employee is on break, his or her name is grayed out indicating they are unavailable. The
supervisor may also call the employee while on break to return to work when, e.g., the floor
becomes busy. When an employee logs out, his or her name disappears from the Status screen.
A user of the Status screen can also send notices to each employee instructing him or her to go
on break.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       37

         In Fig. 19, the Service Calls icon is selected in navigation bar 164. In the left hand
column, the "My Calls" panel can be selected (but is not in Fig. 19) to provide the iPad user
with his or her current calls. This has the same functionality as described in connection with the
iPad touch devices above. Supervisors may need to respond to calls, such as for large jackpots
or when a call that is normally handled by someone with a lower qualification is escalated. The
supervisor monitors calls and accepts, arrives, defers, completes, and escalates in a manner
similar to that described above.
         Next down in the left hand column is "Tasks." The supervisor may accept tasks that are
appropriate for his or her level and deal with them in the same manner as described above for
tasks on the iPod touch device. The Give Me a Task panel is not selected in Fig. 19.
         The next section in the left hand column displays "All Calls." In this section, a user can
view all calls within the system in one of these categories: Unserviced Calls, All Calls, and
Calls by Type. In Fig. 19, Calls by Type is selected. This lists all open calls by one of the five
categories of call types in Table 1. In Fig. 19, there are 4 calls in the General Tilt category, one
in the Hand/Short Pays category, and one in the Printer/Paper category. Each call is displayed
with an indicator, like indicators 184, 186, which is colored green, yellow, or red according to
the color scheme described above to indicate how long the call has been pending.
         In Fig. 20, the last call in the second column, PrinterOff, is selected. This provides
detail in the third column about the call including who is responding and what the current status
of the call is, e.g., accepted, arrived, escalated, etc.
         In Fig. 21, the Unserviced Calls panel is selected in the first column. This displays a list
of all pending calls that have not been accepted in the second column. As with each of the
categories under the All Calls heading, selecting one of the calls in the second column displays
call details and status in the third column, as shown in Fig. 21 where the Low Battery call is
selected in the second column.
         In Fig. 22, the Text Message icon is selected in navigation bar 164. This screen works
much like the text messaging on most smartphones. Any user logged in, whether on an iPad
computer or an iPod touch device can send messages to and receive messages from one another.
The arrival of new messages triggers an audible tone. A number indicator (not appearing) on the
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                         38

Text Message icon displays the number of unread messages. To send a text, the name of any of
the logged in users, which appear in the first column, is touched. This creates a text balloon as
shown with the recipient's name on the to field at the top. The user then touches the balloon, a
keyboard appears on the touch screen, and the message is typed and sent by depressing a send
button, which also appears on the keyboard. Such texting utilizes essentially the same features
and has similar functionality to SMS or MMS messaging in mobile phones.
         Turning now to Fig. 23, indicated generally at 188 is another embodiment of the system
of the present invention. Structure that generally corresponds to that previously identified in
system 92 in Fig. 4 retains the same numeral. As will be seen, system 188 includes additional
functionality that for the most part may be implemented via software accessible by the system.
         In addition to the structure described in Fig. 4, system 188 includes a plurality of gaming
devices 190, 192, 194 connected to the Internet 62. Such devices may also include, e.g., a video
gaming device like the XboXTM device made by Microsoft. They may be connected from homes,
commercial establishments, or any place that the computing devices could operate. These
gaming devices can comprise many different kinds of computing devices. For example, gaming
device 190 is a personal computer, gaming device 192 is a tablet computer, and gaming device
 194 is a smartphone. Smartphone 194 could be connected to Internet 62 via a wireless or
cellular connection.
         Games may be implemented on any of these devices via a dedicated application.
Alternatively, game software may be provided on server 100, which executes and runs the
software thereon. In such cases, the software generates a game interface on the computing
devices with which a player interacts, typically via a web browser. Wagering may be effected
via deposit accounts opened using the computing device and interacting with application server
 100.
         Obviously many of the events in Table 1 would not require or trigger a response from a
casino agent for computing devices 190, 129, 194. But some kinds of gaming activity on these
gaming devices could trigger a response from the operator of system 188. For example,
deviations in wagering patterns on the gaming device might trigger a text message, automated
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      39

or otherwise, from system 188 that could appear in a dialog box on the computing device or be
provided to the player's cell phone if that number is known.
        The duration of play or deviations from duration of play could trigger such a
communication. Awards won or a sequence of losses could be used to initiate a message.
Essentially any event or series of events on computing devices 190, 129, 194 that can be tracked
by system 188 could be used to trigger messages from the operator of system 188.
        As another alternative embodiment, system 188 could be implemented without that
portion in casino 94, i.e., it could be operating only computing devices connected via Internet 62
from wherever they might be.
        Another aspect that can be incorporated into either system 92 or system 188 relates to
assimilating personal data for the players. As mentioned above, network 50 may include a
player tracking system. Such systems often maintain a modest set of demographic information
about each player. This information may be used directly to personalize a message (for
example, to identify the player's name for use in conversation during the event resolution).
Player tracking information may also contain a photo of the player, which is useful for
identification. When an identified player is playing at a machine that triggers a call as a result of
an event, such as one of those in Table 1 or a beverage order, any such demographic data may
be routed via the system to the responder's iPod computer or iTouch device, thus enabling the
responder to quickly identify the patron who may be affected by the event that produced the call
and to address him or her by name.
        In addition, the player can be directly notified that help is on the way when he or she has
summoned assistance or when a call is generated as a result of an issue with the player's gaming
device. This message could be sent immediately after a problem is detected using information in
the player's player-tracking record (or another source), such as a mobile phone number, for text
or voice communication, instant message, an email address, an address on a social media
network, etc. This communication might read or be heard as follows: "Hi Diane. We've
detected a bill jam on your game and apologize for the interruption in your play. A slot
technician, Dan Stevens, has been dispatched to resolve the problem and should arrive within
the next 3 minutes." As a result, the dispatched employee may know the name of the patron,
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      40

among other information, and the patron knows the name of the person who is on their way to
help or otherwise provide service.
         The message could be displayed on the player tracking screen, on the game screen, or
both. This could be instead of or in addition to communication to the player's cell phone or
other mobile device.
         The demographic information is also useful as a key with which to obtain additional
information about the player. For example, if the player's address is within her player tracking
record, that address could be compared to property records to determine whether the property is
owned or rented and its approximate value, which is then useful in gauging the player's
potential worth as a customer. By accessing other external databases, such as those for credit
cards, shopping habits, magazine subscriptions, automobile records, etc., a player's likely
personality, affinities, likes and dislikes can be discerned.
         This information may be gathered during the response to the call or when the player first
signs up for a player tracking membership. In a preferred embodiment, the information is
gathered at time of signup and updated regularly thereafter.
         The player tracking system also holds records on the player's historical activities within
the casino, including game preferences, wagering habits, whether the player is winning or
losing, how long they have been visiting the casino, how long they have been at the casino on
this visit, and a wide range of other data.
         In another embodiment, the player is asked to respond to a survey indicating the level of
satisfaction with respect to how the call was resolved. This could be as basic as asking a short
yes/no question inquiring whether they would want the responder to provide the same service
another time if it was again required. The survey could be delivered via the player tracking
system, the player's cell phone-via text, email, or call-or manually.
         In a preferred embodiment, an additional database is created to store every event
involving each player, how the event was resolved, who the agents were that handled the event
and the survey results of the player after each event to determine satisfaction.
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       41

        It is important to strive to provide every customer with a satisfying experience but
casino resources are finite and, in busy times, it is impossible to provide the maximum level of
service to all consumers.
        When more events occur than a casino's resources can handle, it is commercially
important to satisfy the most important customers first. Players who frequently visit the casino
and wager in high volumes, of course, are important. These players are identifiable through the
player tracking database.
        Also important are consumers who do not currently wager at high volume but who have
the capacity to do so in the future. The likelihood of a given consumer to become a valuable
player is predictable to an important degree. Predictions of potential worth may be made by
agent evaluations, recommendations by other players or by application or commitment of the
consumer.
        Another important means of predicting importance is by comparing personal attributes
of the unknown consumer against attributes of known valuable players. For example, a
consumer without a history of wagering at a casino provides personal data showing he is a 48
year-old male living at zip code 89135.
        Through the personal data assimilation described earlier, it is learned the consumer also
belongs to a private country club, drives a luxury car and is a frequent flier. From its database
on known players, the casino determines many high-value players share these characteristics.
Therefore, this new player is accorded a high level of importance.
        Alternatively, any player newly signed to the player's club may be considered of extra
importance, regardless of whether any information about him or her is known. Studies have
shown that a player's initial experience in a casino will weigh heavily on whether that player
returns and the extent to which the player gambles there. As a result, any new player may be
granted a higher priority.
        Furthermore, even a player that is not enrolled in a player tracking system may warrant
higher priority attention. For example, an uncarded player who has been wagering $4 per game
for 4 hours would warrant a higher level of attention than a player who had been playing penny
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       42

games for 10 minutes. The system can note the frequency of play and amounts of wagers and
infer that the same, albeit unidentified, player is playing a game.
         Another embodiment of this invention utilizes standard geo-location services, such as
GPS, cellular triangulation, and WiFi access point mapping to determine location of casino
agents. Interior location services based upon WiFi and other methods are available from a
variety of vendors, such as Google's "Google Maps 6.0," Apple's mobile location service, or
products from Meridian, http://www.meridianapps.com/, of Portland Oregon. Any of these
could be used to locate casino agents. In such a case, the section associations shown in Table 2
and described above may not be necessary, i.e., dispatch of employees is based on location (and
of course qualification to do the job) as determined by the geo-location service instead of
         Table 2.
         While agent selection based upon the agent's technical qualifications and physical
location is technically efficient, it does not significantly improve the likelihood of consumer
satisfaction or even the long-term efficiency of casino operations. As discussed above, when an
agent arrives to work, she logs into the system through her iPod device, iPad computer or other
equivalent communication device, which tells the system that she is available to handle events.
At the end of the shift, the agent logs off, telling the system she is no longer available.
         From login until logoff, when not on break, the system monitors and records the Agent's
movements and actions. Many casinos are so large, multiple supervisors control a single agent,
each overseeing an area of the casino. In such cases, the system is configured with each
supervisor's identity, areas of responsibility and agents assigned to the supervisor.
         When the agent logs in, the communicator informs her of which supervisor she reports
to, her area of assignment and other details the supervisor wishes her to know. As also
discussed above, she is also given an indication of how busy the casino is at any given time. All
such information is constantly updated throughout the shift.
         At this point, the system has a list of events within the casino that require service and a
list of all available agents and their qualifications. It also possesses knowledge of priorities and
the area and tasks to which each agent is assigned.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        43

        When a new event occurs, the system prioritizes it based upon player identity and how
busy agents currently are at serving other events. The first priority is consumer satisfaction. If
there are multiple agents qualified to handle the event and the player has had favorable
interactions with one of the available agents in the past, that agent is assigned the task. The
system includes a database of all casino employees, their qualifications, training, and history of
performance in resolving prior events. This database can be consulted to determine priority by
seeing how well the employee has resolved such calls in general, whether the employee has
resolved a call for this player in the past, and, if so, how well he or she resolved the call and
what, if any, survey response was made.
         The communication device informs the agent of where the problem is and, optionally,
the player's identity. The agent may also be reminded of the date and circumstances of her last
interaction with the player and be given information about that player's preferences and desires.
        If the player's importance is very high, an agent favored by the player may be called off
of a current assignment to serve the new event. In that case, the system will dispatch a substitute
agent to finish the task the diverted agent was working on.
        If the event involves a lower-priority player, or if the player has no prior relationship
with another agent, and if the casino is not busy with too many other events, the new event may
be assigned to the agent with the least experience at that particular kind of event, in order to
improve the agent's competence.
        For example, Mary is a new agent, with little experience clearing bill acceptor jams. A
bill jam event comes in from the EGM at location B-47, which is in Mary's area of
responsibility. The system determines the player at that EGM has no need or desire for service
from a specific agent and so assigns the event to Mary, so she can become more proficient. If
the supervisor desires and personnel are available, an additional agent, or supervisor, might be
dispatched to the same location in order to provide additional training for Mary or to evaluate
her performance.
        If the casino is busy, or the player is sensitive to delays but has no preferred agent, the
task is assigned to the most experienced available agent.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        44

        Every agent's activities are monitored, recorded and evaluated. For example, Tim is a
moderately experienced agent assigned to a technical malfunction event that is historically
tricky to remedy. The customer at the involved EGM is a very high-value player, who is known
to be demanding.
         The system initiates a timer when the event occurs, as described above. In this example,
presume the system is configured to allow a maximum of five minutes to resolve the problem
within the player's expectations. The event is assigned to Tim, and accepted by him 30 seconds
after event occurrence. Tim's supervisor is informed that a critical event service is in progress.
From Tim's current location, it should take a maximum of two minutes to reach the location.
        If Tim does not reach the location within two minutes, his supervisor is alerted, so that
another agent may be sent to help. In this case though, Tim does arrive within the allowed time.
The system knows that Tim has arrived when either (a) Tim so informs system through his
communication device and/or (b) the door to the game is opened (most systems report EGM
door openings and the door must be opened to fix the problem).
         Tim should be able to fix the problem within three minutes after opening the door. If
Tim does not declare the job finished within the allotted time, and/or the door is not properly
closed within that time, the supervisor is again so informed.
        In this way, the system evaluates agent performance in comparison to player worth,
demands, and expectations in light of how busy the casino is at that time. The system works to
preemptively inform supervisors of problems so additional resources can be dispatched.
Alternatively, the system can dispatch additional agents automatically, instead of simply
informing the supervisor.
         These are simply two examples of event situations and not an exhaustive description of
the system's full capabilities. One of skill in the art of casino management will recognize there
are many ways to improve customer satisfaction within a finite budget by comparing agent
qualifications, experience and availability, against customer importance, personality, history,
and desires, while factoring in the nature of the event and the business of the casino to the time
of the new event.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       45

         While the above examples describe the dispatch of a single agent to handle an event, it is
anticipated that multiple agents may be dispatched simultaneously while other services are also
provided. For example, when a player wins a jackpot of $1,200 or more the player is required to
complete tax forms before payment is issued. For security reasons, witnesses are required to
verify the player was given the money, security is needed to transport the money safely cross
the casino floor, and paperwork is required for the cage to provide the cash.
         The system can simultaneously, or in staged timing, issue notifications to the cage that
cash is required, alert security to transport the funds, cause a casino host to greet the player,
explain the process and get tax form signatures, and send witnesses to verify the transaction.
         As set forth in applicant's co-pending '355 application, any of the messages described
herein may be delivered by a virtual persona, as can any other communication that may occur
on this system. The virtual persona messages may be via phone calls, text messages, e-mails,
dialog boxes generated on screens, or any via any other telecommunications method. Further,
such messages may be automatically generated or otherwise.
         Illustrated in Fig. 24 is a portion of another embodiment. As with the previously
described embodiments, the Fig. 24 embodiment is implemented on an iPadTM device, and Fig.
24 is a view of one of the displayed screens on the device, which is indicated generally at 200.
As with the first embodiment, there is a navigation bar at the bottom from which different
screens can be selected. In Fig. 24, the Calls screen is selected and displayed. It includes three
sections, a calls summary panel 202, a call list panel 204, and a call detail panel 206. As can be
seen in panel 202, the number of active calls is listed by category: All, Unserviced, By Section,
and By Type. Panel 202 includes a section listing Completed calls, also categorized: All, By
Section, and By Type. There is also a Join selection, which permits a user of device 200 to join
a call in progress as will be explained shortly. Device 200 is referred to as a supervisor device,
although any user can log into any device. The permitted user role, however, may limit the
action that a logged in employee may take. And the system will not permit an employee to log
in under a role that is not associated with the employee in the system and therefore not a
permitted role.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        46

         Each call listed in panel 204 includes at least one icon of a human figure, each of which
correspond to a user who has been offered or accepted a call generated by the system-or to a
role in the system for which there is currently no user. The color of each icon indicates whether
the user has completed the call; whether the user has been offered or accepted the call, or has
arrived at the location specified in the call; and whether there is no user associated with the role
needed on the call.
         The supervisor device 200 can view any category of the calls by touching the name in
panel 202. For example, All calls is selected in panel 202 of Fig. 24 and listed in panel 204.
Unserviced calls, which is not selected in Fig. 24, lists all the calls that have not been accepted
by a user. By Section lists all of the calls but sorted into subheadings by section on the floor.
And By Type lists all of the calls but sorted into subheadings by type of call, e.g., Change Light
On, General Tilt, Bill Acceptor jam, etc. (Fig. 28 depicts calls sorted into subheadings.)
Completed calls may be similarly displayed except there is no Unserviced category because all
completed calls have been serviced.
         As can be seen in Fig. 24, when one of the calls in panel 204 is selected, the detail for
that call appears in panel 206. It is possible for supervisor device 200 to assign a user to the call
by touching the Assign User button, which will soon be described in more detail. The detail
panel 206, includes the type of call, in this case Bill Acceptorjam, The floor section, D03, and
the machine number 0201. Because the player of this particular machine is logged in to his
player tracking account, his name, John Smith, also appears along with his status, Silver, in the
player tracking system. In addition, the type of Responder, FloorAttendant, is listed as is status,
 Waitingfor responder.Finally, Remove Call button in the lower right hand corner permits
supervisor device 200 to cancel the call but only if it has not yet been accepted by the user to
whom the call was offered.
         Before describing further functionality, it should be noted that the drawings are
populated with simulated data, including calls, machine locations, users, comments, etc., which
depict how the system actually works on a gaming floor. There may be inconsistencies in the
data from one drawing to another. Regardless, the drawings illustrate the views, panels, buttons,
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       47

various user inputs, and device responses that produce the decreased call times, increased user
satisfaction, report generation, and other benefits associated with these systems and methods.
         Turning now to Fig. 25, the Join button is selected in panel 202 thus generating a pop-up
panel 208. Panel 208 included a scrollable list of all active calls, only one of which is viewable
in Fig. 25. As can be seen in panel 206, there is a call to a floor attendant who has not yet
responded by accepting or deferring the call. A user of device 200 may scroll the list in panel
208 and touch a call, e.g., General Tilt call. Thereafter if the Join Call button on the panel 208 is
pressed, the user of device 200 is added to the call and may respond in the same fashion as if the
call were automatically generated by the system.
         In Fig. 26, the user of device 200 has selected the Drink Request call in panel 204. As a
result, the detail for that call is displayed in panel 206 (although partially obscured in this view).
There is an Assign User button that appears in panel 206. When the Assign User button is
touched, a pop-up panel 210 appears, which includes a scrollable list of all employees who are
logged in. As can be seen in panel 210, each line includes an employee name, the role in which
the employee is currently registered in the system, and the section or section where he or she is
serving. The employees are sorted by work area, e.g., Slots, Security, and Beverage. Touching
on one of those headers conceals the list under the other headers and displays only the
employees for the selected area, as show for slots in Fig. 26.
         The Assign User button might be used when a user of device 200 selects the Unserviced
Calls in panel 202 and sees a particularly old unserviced call. Alternatively, the Assign User
button may be used to assign a user to any active call, even if another user has accepted it. The
Unserviced calls include a color-coded stripe, like stripes 212, 214 at the left side of each call in
panel 204. Each color provides the supervisor device 200 with a quick indication of how long
the call has been open. For example, a green stripe would indicate a recently opened call, e.g.,
less than 3 minutes, a yellow stripe 3-5 minutes, and a red stripe, over 6 minutes. For unserviced
calls, yellow and red stripes might inform the user of device 200 that the call needs to be
assigned using the Assign User button as described. Different types of calls might require
different times for their respective stripe colors to appear. And these could be different at
different casinos, depending upon the targets for responding to calls.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        48

        In each call detail of panel 206, which can be better seen in Figs. 24-26, there is an
indication at the bottom of the panel of when the call was created, either by the system or
manually, when a user accepted the call, and when it was completed. Current status and elapsed
time is also displayed. As a result, a user of device 200 may quickly be informed about which
calls may need to have a user or another user assigned via panel 210.
        Fig. 27 illustrates how device 200 is notified that the system has offered him or her a
call. An audible alert occurs and a pop-up panel 215 notifies the user of the call type, and the
location, including the section number and machine number. In addition, if the player at the
machine requiring service is a carded player, i.e., logged into the player tracking system, his or
her name and status appears on panel 215. Also appearing is the player's status, i.e., typically an
indication of how much tracked wagering the player does. As a result, the user of device 200
can provide service commensurate with the level of significance associated with the player in
the player tracking system.
        If the user of device 200 presses the defer button, the call is offered to another person on
his or her device, panel 215 disappears, and the screen reverts back to its condition before panel
215 appeared. If the Accept button is depressed, panel 215 also disappears, and the call becomes
the user's call on device 200. Because device 200 lists many calls in panel 204, including the
call to which the user is assigned, an exclamation point appears over the Calls button in the
navigation bar to remind the user that he or she is on a call that has been offered, accepted, or
not yet complete.
        Fig. 28 depicts a pop-up panel 217 that appears on the screen if the user tries to log out
before completing an active call. The user depresses the OK button on panel 214, completes the
call and can then log out.
        Fig. 29 depicts a feature in which a finger swipe across the name of a responder in panel
206 brings up a delete button as shown. When depressed, this role is deleted from the call. This
feature may only be exercised before a responder has accepted the call; after that it does not
work. But alternative embodiments permit deletion at any time.
                Fig. 30 shows an assignment pop-up menu 216, which may be accessed on any
screen that is presented on device 200. In the upper left corner of the screen, the name of the
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      49

employee logged in on device 200, John Smith, appears next to a downwardly directed arrow.
Anytime the name is touched, menu 216 appears. When the entries on menu 216 are touched,
additional screens (not shown) display. These additional screens permit the employee to identify
which role or roles of his or her permissible roles the employee will be associated with during
the current work period. The employee also designates the section or sections to which he or she
will be assigned.
         Each employee has a Machine Access Card that must be inserted into a slot in a card
reader associated with each machine to obtain access to the machine. This is the same type of
card and is inserted into the same slot as a player-tracking card. When the employee touches the
Link Employee Card item on menu 216, he or she can insert the card into any card reader. The
system then presents on a pop-up screen (not shown) the machine number associated with the
card reader into which the card was inserted. When the employee touches the machine number
the Machine Access Card and employee user profile are linked in the system. As will be seen,
this facilitates automatic creation of a machine entry log and enables rapid supervisor response
to an illegal entry.
         The next menu item is Create Self Speed Call, which produces a scrollable pop-up panel
218 as shown in Fig. 31, which is described shortly. The final menu item is Start Break, which
produces a panel asking whether the employee wants to start his or her break. Two different
buttons appear, one for 15 minutes and one for 30 minutes, which can vary depending on the
employee's status or job. But of course any break time could be implemented. When one of the
buttons is touched, break timers begin, and the employee's status in the system is indicated as
being on break. As will be seen, a supervisor can be notified via one of the devices that an
employee has exceeded the allocated break time.
         Panel 218 permits the user of device 200 to manually generate a call that he or she is
assigned to. Various reasons for such a call appear on panel 218 but different reasons could be
used, or reasons that are entered manually via a keypad. This is the same panel that appears if
the Create a New Call button is pressed on panel 208 in Fig. 25. In other words, there are
different ways to access panel 218. In Fig. 31, the user has selected Counterfeit, although this
selection is not shown. Although not visible in Fig. 31 when the list on panel 218 is scrolled the
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      50

following additional types of creatable calls appear: Guest Dispute, Machine Entry, Medical,
Restroom.
        In Fig. 32 after selecting the type of call from the list on panel 218 (counterfeit in this
instance), the user is prompted to enter a location. The user touches one of the listed section
locations and then enters, via a touch-screen keypad that appears when user touches the text
entry box beneath "Location Description," a location. In this case it is a machine number, but it
could be anything, such as the name of a restaurant, a cashier's cage, etc.
        As can be seen in Fig. 33, the newly created call appears on the user's call detail panel,
and an exclamation point appears over the Calls button in the navigation bar to indicate that the
user is on an active call. The type of call just created by the user, Counterfeit, and the call
location, also just created by the user, both appear in panel 206. This call, now being created in
the system, also appears to other users who use devices like device 200 and have the appropriate
permissions to view calls.
        In Fig. 34, the user has pressed the escalate button in Fig. 33, perhaps after dealing with
the situation for a while and determining that more assistance is required. This brings up a pop
up panel 218, which permits the user to specify the role of an additional responder who will
receive an offer to join this call. In addition, the user of device 200 can press one of two buttons
on panel 218: Remain on Call or Leave the Call. Thus he or she may be calling in reinforcement
or turning the call over to another responder depending upon which button is pressed. The call
detail panel 206 will either disappear, if the user is leaving the call, or will indicate status of
offer to additional responder(s) if the user is staying on the call.
        In Fig. 35, the user of device 200 has selected Slot Technician by touching that entry. A
check mark appears to indicate it has been selected. Because in Fig. 35, the user selected the
Remain on the Call button on panel 35, after selecting the Slot Technician, the screen assumes
the condition of Fig. 36, indicating who was offered the call and the status of the offer.
        After the screen in Fig. 36 appears, the user of device 200, although initially selecting
the Remain on Call button in Fig. 35 has determined that he or she has either done all that can
be done, the role in which the user is serving cannot help, or there is another reason why the
user should not remain on the call. So in Fig. 36, the user of device 200 depresses the Complete
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       51

button, and the screen of Fig. 37 appears, indicating the call is still on offer to the Slot
Technician, but that the user, Tom Smith, is no longer on the call.
        Fig. 38 illustrates further development of the Counterfeit call described in the previous
figures and also indicates a modified view for the screen, which will now be described.
Returning first briefly to Fig. 37, a left-facing arrow 220 when touched actuates a slide-out
menu 222 to the position shown in Fig 38. As can be seen, panel 202 disappears, panels 204,
206 shift to the left, and menu 222 appears in the former location of panel 206. In Fig. 38, left
facing arrow 220 is replaced with a right-facing arrow 224. When arrow 224 in Fig. 38 is
touched, menu 222 disappears, and panels 202, 204, 206 return to the position shown in Fig. 37.
        Menu 222 includes two portions, an upper Alerts panel 226 and a lower Radio panel
228. Radio panel may operate independently of menu 222. When panels 202, 204, 206 are in the
position shown in Fig. 37 and the Radio icon at the right end of the navigation bar is touched,
menu 222 moves to the position shown in Fig. 38. Each time the Radio icon is touched when
the screen is as shown in Fig. 38, Radio panel 228 alternately appears and disappears. When it is
not displayed, there is better visibility for the scrollable list on the Alerts panel 226, which will
be described in more detail.
        The controls in Radio panel 228 facilitate voice communication among all the current
system users via their respective iPad or iPod touch devices. The Radio panel includes a Scan
Mode switch 230, which is toggled on and off when it is touched. When on, a scrollable list of
channels may be viewed, only three of which, Security, Beverage, and Marketing are visible in
Fig. 38. When a user swipes the list vertically, the list scrolls to reveal three additional channels:
Emergency, Auxiliary, and Security. When a user first logs in, the system automatically assigns
him or her to the channel that corresponds to the role associated with the user. Each user is
always assigned to one channel over which all users on the channel can both broadcast and hear
voice messages. By selecting the Scan Mode, a user can scroll the channel list, touch a different
channel, and switch to broadcasting and receiving over the new channel.
        When a user of device 200 wishes to send a message over their current channel, he or
she presses the Start Recording switch. After a short audible signal, the device begins recording
a message spoken by the user, which can be a maximum of 12 seconds. The message is sent in
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        52

one of two ways. First, the user can hit the send button as soon as the message is complete.
Second, if the user has not hit the send button within 12 seconds after the message begins
recording, the message is automatically sent. In addition, the message may be canceled at any
time before sending by hitting the Cancel button. A recording bar 232 provides a visible
indication of the 12-second maximum message recording time. It starts filling from left to right
beginning with the start of message recording and ending at the end on the right just as the 12
second recording time elapses. The bar is part way between the beginning and ending of a
message that is being recorded in Fig. 38. It indicates about 5 seconds of recording time has
elapsed.
         Each of the devices includes audio compression software that is helpful in two respects.
First, the audio signal is digitized and compressed, thus reducing system bandwidth on the
wireless network. Second, noise suppression is applied to remove the ambient casino noise that
may be picked up by the device microphone when a voice message is recorded. Because the
calls are recorded, they can be stored, either on the device or retrieved from the server, and then
replayed on the device.
         The microphone to used to record a user's verbal message is that built in to the device.
And the speaker for replaying may be that built into the device-or the device may be paired
with a Bluetooth earpiece and microphone, to enable hands-free use of the device.
         When a message is sent, it goes first to the system server, which determines the current
users on the channel to which the message should be sent. The server then sends the messages
to all users on that channel. Next, an audible alert occurs at each device that is set to the channel
of the message sender. Thereafter, the message plays. But if another message is currently being
transmitted to or played on the channel, an audible alert informs the sender that the message was
not sent and that he or she must create and send the message again. Alternatively, because the
message is recorded at the device, it may be stored, either at the device or on the server, and
thereafter sent in response to the user again touching the Send button. In a still further version,
the server can stack all incoming messages in the order received and send them in sequence. In
the present embodiment, each channel's message traffic is independent of the others. Put
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      53

differently, messages may be sent and received on each channel as described without regard to
traffic on other channels.
         In Fig. 39, device 200 is shown while a message is playing. As can be seen, the sender's
name, Charles X-Ray, and the time of the message are shown on the channel on which the
message was sent in the channel list. In this case, the sender is also the user of device 200. The
same notice of user name and time of message appears on all devices currently set on the
channel on which the message is sent.
         Fig. 39 also illustrates one of the screens that appears when the User Profile icon in the
navigation is selected. It displays information fields that the system generates and displays to
the user of device 200. By selecting the Edit Profile button, the user can change the information
presented. The upper portion is primarily information that identifies the employee and includes
a system-generated indication of whether he or she has linked a machine access card. The
performance stats display the average times it takes the employee to complete different types of
calls for this shift or for another time frame selected by the user. There are also totals for
completed, deferred, and quit calls, which are also for the shift or for a different time frame.
         Concluding now the description of the Radio feature, Fig. 40 is a view of a screen 232 of
a device, indicated generally at 234, which is another embodiment of the invention. Device 234
is implemented on an iPod touch and operates with device 200 in a fashion similar to how the
devices that display screens 118, 162 interact with the server and with one another. Like device
200, it includes a navigation bar, and also includes Status, Call, Text, Radio, and About icons in
a navigation bar at the bottom of screen 232. When the Radio icon is touched, as shown in Fig.
40, the Radio screen appears. It includes the same controls as the Radio feature on device 200
and operates in essentially the same manner. It should be noted that in the views of Figs. 39 and
40, Scan Mode is set to off. In Fig. 38, however, it is set to on. As discussed above, when it is
on, the channel list is scrollable, which enables a user to change channels. In the views of Figs.
39 and 40 each device is set to hear and receive messages on the slot channel. Changing the
channel can be accomplished by using turning Scan Mode on or by touching the Change
Channel entry, which presents a list of the channels from which the desired channel may be
chosen.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       54

        One of the channels is the Emergency channel. Unlike the other channels, when a user
broadcasts on this channel, all users who are logged in receive the message. The Auxiliary
channel is available by subscription only. Users who are not subscribed on the system do not see
the Auxiliary channel on the list of channels presented on their device screen. This provides a
private channel for authorized users, typically higher-level supervisors, on which to
communicate.
        Implementing the radio feature in this manner provides several advantages. First, the
messages may be stored, either on the devices or on the server, for later replay-by either the
users or a supervisor of a user. In addition, because the messages are stored, a supervisor can
create a message to one employee or to a group of employees in advance of its delivery. For
example, a supervisor can create a message at the evening before a shift begins, and store it
either on the server or on is or her device. When the employee or employees to whom the
message is directed logs in the next day, the radio message is delivered and heard by the
employee.
        Before moving on, a brief description will be provided of the functions served by the
other icons on the navigation bar of device 234. The status screen (not shown) presents
information to the user of device 234 indicating the section and role that is currently associated
with the user, typically those selected when the user logged in. In addition, there is a break
switch that presents the same 15-minute/30-minute option described above. This switch starts a
break clock running for the user of the device. Finally, there is a logout button and an edit
button, the latter permitting the device user to change his or her section or role. The Calls icon
presents the screen on which service calls are offered to the user and which also indicates the
current status of a call the user has been offered or is on. This feature will be described more
fully with reference to additional drawings that detail call functionality. The Text icon presents
a screen (not shown for this embodiment) of text conversations and is the screen from which a
user sends and receives texts and reviews stored texts, essentially as previously described.
Finally, the About icon can be used to present a screen (not shown) that presents system or
device information, such as the version of the software operating the device, the site where the
device is authorized to operate, etc. There are also buttons to Re-Link the Employee Card, in
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      55

case the linking process described above needs to be repeated and a button to change the
employee's PIN, which is used to log on.
         In Fig. 41, the Stats icon is selected on the navigation bar. The view in Fig. 41 shows the
statistics for all users since the beginning of a current casino day, the time for which can be set
in the system. They are categorized by event type because each type of event typically has a
different expectation and goal for how much time is needed to resolve that event. The system
automatically calculates average times by discarding outlying times, e.g., those under one
minute and those over one hour, and then calculating an average event time for a predefined
period, e.g. monthly, quarterly, annually, etc. These averages are automatically updated.
         These averages may be used to set a goal time. For example a current goal time for an
event could be set to be 80% of the most recently calculated average for that event. Each event
displayed in Fig. 41 shows, for each event, the average time to resolve the event for the current
casino day thus far, the number of seconds over/under the most recently calculated average for
that event, and the percentage over/under.
         The average event time can also be used to expand the pool of responders. As will be
recalled, if a primary responder does not accept a call within a first predefined time, the pool of
responders is expanded to include secondary responders. If there is no response from the
expanded pool within a second predefined time, the pool can again be expanded to include
tertiary responders, and so forth. The time elapsed from the start of the event (and without
acceptance) until the call is offered to a secondary responder could be 80% of goal time, and if
the call is still not accepted, by one of the primary or secondary responders, within 100% of
goal time, the call is now also offered to the tertiary responders.
         These averages and goal times may also be used for the color coding, previously
described, which visually indicates whether a call is currently being handled within time
(green), approaching its goal time (yellow), or overtime (red).
         In the view of Fig. 41, a drop-down menu at the top is used to select which statistics are
shown. It is currently on all users, but the employees are also listed by name in the drop-down
menu. As a result, the statistics by employee can also be displayed in the same manner.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       56

        In Fig. 42, the user has touched the screen in Fig. 41 on the General Tilts statistics. This
creates a pop-up screen shown in Fig. 42 of all of the General Tilt calls thus far in the current
day. The user can again touch one of the calls to see all of the detail (not illustrated) associated
with the call. Hitting the print button in the upper right corner prints the currently active screen.
        Fig. 43 illustrates another way to access statistics by employee. Fig. 43 shows a view of
a screen when the User Profile icon is depressed, which was described in connection with Fig.
39. When one of the categories of calls is touched on screen 39, an expanded list of all of the
calls for that category appears. In Fig. 43, the user has touched the Printer/Paper label, thereby
producing the pop-up panel in Fig. 43 listing all of the Printer/Paper Gaming Day Call History
events for John Snow. Each of the three events in the list on the left of the pop-up panel may be
touched to produce the detail on the right of the panel. As a result of using the features on the
User Profile screen or the Stats screen, rapid analysis and display of detail for any event or
employee may be quickly located and determined.
        In Fig. 44, slide-out menu 222 is displayed. It includes 5 icons at the top, the first being
a system alert icon 236. When it is selected as shown, a scrollable alerts list appears on the
menu. It includes several categories, two of which are visible, namely Max Call Time Exceeded
and Unsupervised sections. An additional category (not visible) is Illegal Machine Entry. The
number on the left side of each label is the number of alerts currently in that category. When
each category label is touched, the category expands, as shown in Fig. 44, to list each item that
makes up the category. When the label is touched again, only the category label is shown along
with the number of events.
        When a maximum call time is exceeded, the alert appears in the Alerts list, and the
supervisor may choose to act by texting or otherwise contacting the responder, by assigning
another responder (as described above), or by taking some other action. The supervisor may
also choose to assign or shift users to an unsupervised section. And of course an illegal machine
entry requires immediate attention. Machine entry is addressed in detail later on. Briefly, an
illegal machine entry alert is generated by the system when a machine door sensor, each of
which is monitored on the network and by the system, indicates a door opened, and one of the
following is true: a) no current user is linked to machine access card that is inserted into the card
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      57

slot; b) there is no call at the machine; c) no entry reason was generated (by the system) or
provided (by the responder); or d) the employee is on a call but at a different machine.
         In Fig. 45, an Unserviced Calls icon 238 is selected, which lists all of the unserviced
calls in the slide-out menu. As with other lists, touching one of the calls reveals the call detail in
a panel positioned like panel 206 in Fig. 38. Thus a supervisor may quickly see how many calls
there are, determine a rough status for each, via the colored stripe to the left of each call, and
quickly review the detail on any of the calls.
         In Fig. 46, a Card Utilization icon 240 is selected. Doing so lists all of the categories of
players in the player tracking system and indicates of all those currently carded in and playing,
the percentage of each category. When one of the categories is touched a pop-up panel 242 in
Fig. 47 creates a scrollable list of each player in that category and the machine at which he or
she is playing. This facilitates marketing efforts, including providing appropriate
complementary amenities, such as beverages, to an identified player.
         Although exemplary lists are not shown for either, icon 244 generates a scrollable early
out list, i.e., those employees who would like to leave early, if possible, and icon 246 displays a
scrollable list of all current users who are associated with more than one section on the gaming
floor.
         Next, Figs. 48-52 illustrate use of the system to locate machines or players to assist with
players' club and other marketing functions. Most casinos want to make personal connections
with players, especially those who wager large amounts as well as regulars. It is desirable to be
able to greet, locate, and advise such players about game and machine locations and to do so in
a way that results in the player experiencing a personal connection with casino personnel.
         Figs. 48 and 49 illustrate screens that can be used to a) identify the name associated with
a card inserted at a particular machine or b) use the player's name to locate a particular machine
into which the card associated with the player is inserted. In the embodiment of Fig. 48, a Tools
panel 248 includes a Players button and a Machines button. In Fig. 48, the Players button is
depressed, which brings up the Enter Machine ID message above a text entry field 250. A
players' club representative, or any other person equipped with one of the devices, can see a
player at one of the machines, enter the machine number (using the touch screen keyboard, not
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       58

shown), and have the player's name and player's club status returned in Tools panel 248 in the
space beneath text field 250 when the user hits Enter on the keyboard. If the player is not carded
in, a message so indicating appears on panel 248. If there is no player or an un-carded player,
the message so indicates.
        Conversely, looking now at Fig. 49, when the Machines button on panel 248 is
depressed, the phrase "Enter Name" appears above text field 250. As the user begins typing a
player's name, a search program suggests names by displaying them in a list that drops down
from text field 250 (not shown). Each of the suggested names is from the list of current carded
players. A user can at any time select one of the suggested names or simply continue typing
using the touch screen keyboard (not shown) until the name appears in full in field 250. When
the user hits Enter on the keyboard, the identity of the machine (Machine ID) having that
player's card in the associated card reader appears beneath text field 250, as shown in Fig. 49.
This enables a user to locate the gaming device at which the carded player is playing. If there is
no player carded in with that name, the system returns a message to that effect on panel 248.
And if two carded players happen to have the same name, both names are presented along with
each player's birthday, which is stored in the player tracking record. Knowing the ages of both
players may help a user confirm which player is at the machine.
        Fig. 50, in another embodiment, depicts a Locate Game feature in Tools panel 248.
Game names can be entered into a text field 252 via the keyboard (not shown). As the name is
spelled possible matches appear in a list below the text field. Once the name is fully entered, or
selected from the list of possible matches, game information is displayed as shown in Fig. 51.
This enables any user on the floor to respond to a player's query concerning the location of a
certain game title or to direct a player to a game that the device user thinks will be one that the
player will appreciate.
        Note that in in Fig. 51, the Game Information panel beneath text field 252 lists the
games in two categories: Hot Games and Ready Games. As is known in the art, gaming
machines can be set to average a set percent of all wagers to be returned to players in the form
of awards. Of course, each play of the game generates a random outcome, but if the game is
designed and functioning properly, over time the average return will approach the set payback.
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                     59

A payback of 92% is fairly typical. But because each play is random, games can have short
streaks in which they pay back more or less than the set payback. A game that is paying back
more over a short time is referred to as a hot game; a game paying back less is referred to as a
ready game. Some players are superstitious and have a preference for one game or the other-a
hot one under the belief that it will continue to pay or a ready one because the player believes it
is due to pay. This feature is described more fully in applicant's '355 application.
         Fig. 52 discloses a screen in still another embodiment that simply lists hot games and
ready games. This permits a user to quickly provide a player on the floor with information about
hot or ready games and the location of each.
         Next, Figs. 53-63 illustrate further use of the system to assist device users in establishing
personal connections with players or to otherwise enhance the level of service that is offered.
First, considering Figs. 53-55, a Welcome alert is generated by the system and included in the
list of calls displayed on the screen of device 200 as shown in Fig. 53. This alert is generated
when a pre-identified member (or member of a pre-identified group of players) of the players'
club inserts his or her card into a card reader for the first time on the current day. For example,
all members of a particular tier in the player's club could be set to generate such an alert. In Fig.
53, player Bill James, who is in the Elite tier of the player's club, carded in for the first time on
06/04/13. Like all other events, the time-and lapsed time from event start-that the event was
created, accepted, and completed, along with the arrival time of the responder are displayed on
this screen (and on the associated user profile and statistics screens) and stored in the system.
         Fig. 54 shows the screen of an iPod touch to which the Welcome Alert in Fig. 53 has
been offered. Like other events, a pop-up panel indicates offers the call by displaying the type
of call, machine location, and player name and status, with an invitation to accept or defer the
call. A Pending Call screen appears behind the pop-up panel, also identifying the nature of the
call along with the pertinent information.
         Fig. 55 depicts the screen after the device user hits the Accept button in Fig. 54. From
there, the call proceeds in the usual fashion with the user being able to quit, arrive, escalate, etc.
the call as previously described for other types of calls. This feature permits a responder to
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       60

locate and greet the identified player when he or she first begins playing for the day-an
important way to make a valued player feel valued and welcome.
        Turning now to Figs. 56-58, a Hot Player event is displayed on the screen of device 200
in the usual fashion. This event was generated in response to any player, whether or not the
player is enrolled in the player's club and whether or not a card is inserted, who wagers a
predefined amount as detected and collected by the slot-machine network, which monitors the
meters on each slot machine, including the bet and jackpot meters. The wagering could be
above a certain level within a predefined period of time (e.g., over $2500 within 10 minutes), it
could be a single wager above a predefined amount, or both. This can be set and changed in the
system. When the Hot Player event is generated, the player's machine location, which is known
in the system, is displayed in panel 206. In this case, the hot player is a carded player so his
name appears as well. If the player were un-carded, only the machine location would appear.
        Fig. 57 shows the panel that permits the user to whom the Hot Player event was offered
to accept or defer. Like previously described calls, the Pending Call information appears behind
the pop-up panel that offers the call. When the accept button is pressed in Fig. 57, the screen
then appears as in Fig. 58. The responder then goes to the location of the hot machine, presses
the arrive button in Fig. 58, greets the player, and in general makes him or her feel appreciated,
with or without complementary amenities. And if the player is not carded, the responder can
assist with enrolling the player into the player's club. At the end of the interaction, the user
depresses the complete button (not shown in these views) to conclude the call.
        Fig. 59 illustrates an Abandoned Card event. This can be an employee card or a player's
card. When a player's card is left in a card slot and a predefined length of time passes with no
activity detected by the network on the machine associated with the card reader, the system
generates an Abandoned Card event as shown in Fig. 59. When an employee's card is left in,
and a current call is not completed after a predefined length of time, the Abandoned Card event
is generated and offered to a user, as shown in Fig. 60. When the call is accepted in Fig. 60, the
screen of Fig. 61 appears, the user heads for the machine having the card and retrieves it, if
indeed it is abandoned, or determines what other course of action might be appropriate if there
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      61

is a player or casino employee there. Like all other events, the usual user commands may be
utilized, and the usual goal times and average completion times may be stored and displayed.
        Fig. 62 provides an example of a setting screen for jackpot notifications. In brief, this
feature permits a user to enter a mobile phone number or email address to which a notification
can be sent upon the initial alert for a jackpot over a predefined amount, when the jackpot event
is complete, or both. As can be seen in Fig. 62, multiple events can trigger an email, illustrated
in Fig. 62, or text, not shown but implemented in a similar fashion. For example the four jackpot
events, which could each be selected from one of the drop-down menus in Fig. 62, could be set
in the system in ranges: $0-$2499; $2500-$9,999; $10,000-$24,999; and $25,000 and up. Email
addresses are entered in the text box associated with each event. In the case of text notification,
the text field would contain the number of a mobile phone. And both text and email can be
generated for carded players, un-carded players, or both. The notification will include the
player's name and player's club status, if known, the amount of the jackpot, and the machine
location. These notifications are in addition to the usual jackpot events generated by the system
to which users must respond, e.g., to hand pay a jackpot. The notifications generated by the
feature illustrated in Fig. 62 are more for marketing and player relations, permitting anyone who
signs up for such notifications to quickly know about machine locations and players-or in the
case of un-carded events, machine locations only-where jackpots of a predetermined size are
won.
        In Fig. 63, an arm of a user, indicated generally at 254, has device 234 attached to the
user's arm via a strap 256, which can be repeatedly secured to and removed from the user's arm
via a hook and loop material, such as VelcroTM material. The view of Fig. 63 shows device 234
as the user may use it on his or her shift. This leaves the user's hands free to perform work on
the machine or otherwise carry out his or her duties while being able to refer to the screen
responsive to an audible alert or to send a radio or text message. The alert may indicate that a
radio or text message is on the way or that the user has received a call, which may come via the
device's speaker or via a wireless headphone. As a result, the user typically refers to the device
only when necessary as opposed to having to continually refer to it to check the status of
communications and calls.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      62

        Turning now to Fig. 64, consideration will be give to the manner in which the MEAL
log is generated. A user's screen 260 on an iPod device as described above shows that the user
does not have a pending or active call, i.e., he or she is available to receive call offers.
        In Fig. 65, screen 260 shows that a Call has been offered, in this case a General Tilt at
slot machine number 04 located in bank 31 of section B08, where the user is assigned or
associated. As is known in the industry, General Tilt is a generic term for a variety of different
problems, like those listed in Table 1, all of which require entry into the machine to address.
When the user touches the Accept button in Fig. 65, the display of Fig. 66 appears on screen
260.
        After the user arrives at the machine, he or she can either depress the Arrive button on
the screen or insert his or her user card into the card reader associated with the machine. Either
way notifies the system that the user is at the machine, after which the display of Fig. 67
appears, but without-at least initially-the Call update failed panel, which is shortly explained.
As with other calls, the user can escalate as described above, if he or she needs assistance to
complete the call. In addition, a comment button 262, appears when the system detects a signal
from the door sensor indicating the door for this machine was opened. When button 262 is
touched, a panel (not shown) labeled "Add a Comment" along with a touch screen keyboard
(also not shown) appears, which enables a user to associate a comment with the MEAL entry.
This could provide more detail about the work performed beyond the system-generated call
name, e.g., "Reset bill acceptor."
        Once the call is complete, whether the user elects to add a comment or not, the user
withdraws his or her card from the card reader, and touches the Complete button. The screen
thereafter presents the display shown in Fig. 64, which appears when the user is available to
receive call offers. If the user fails to withdraw his or her card before touching the complete
button, a panel 264 in Fig. 67 appears to prompt the user to remove their card.
        Sometimes the door sensor on a gaming device has failed or otherwise does not provide
a signal to the system to indicate that a door has been opened. As a result, the comment button
does not appear on screen 260, even when the door is opened. If this happens on a call, such as a
General Tilt, that requires a door open event, when the user touches the complete button in Fig.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       63

67, a panel 266 and associated keyboard appears (Fig. 68) to enable the user to enter a comment
with they keyboard and touching the yes button on panel 266. (This is similar to the panel and
keyboard that appears when the Comment button is touched, as discusses above.) In other
words, the system assumes the sensor is not working when it does not receive a door-open
sensor for a call that requires machine entry. In some cases, the user may arrive at the machine
and be able to resolve the issue without opening the door, or otherwise has not opened the door
when the call is completed. In this case, the user touches the no button on panel 266. After
either the yes or no button on panel 266 is touched, the screen returns to the display shown in
Fig. 64, and the user is again available to receive offered calls.
        Before recording this call in the MEAL log, the system first checks to confirm: a) the
request from the user's device must give a call identifier, b) the call so identified must exist and
be found by the system, c) the call is one that requires machine entry, and d) the call must be
associated with a gaming machine that stored by the system.
         The present implementation also permits a user to enter a machine and create a
corresponding MEAL entry on his or her initiative. In other words, this can happen even when
the system has not generated any call at all. To do so, the user touches the Create a Call button
in Fig. 64, which causes a scrollable list of call types to appear in Figs. 69 and 70. In the view of
Fig. 70 the list has been scrolled so that more call types can be displayed. When the call to be
created requires entering a machine, the user touches Machine Entry in Fig. 70, which displays
a scrollable submenu listing typical reasons for entering a machine, as shown in Fig. 71. When
the Other panel is touched in Fig. 71, a comment box appears, which when touched displays the
touch-screen keyboard to permit the user to create a reason for entry, which will be included in
the MEAL log.
        In Fig. 72, the user has reconsidered the reason for entering the machine and has
changed the selection from Other to Tilt by touching the Tilt panel. When the user hits the Next
button in Fig. 72, a further submenu shown in Fig. 73 appears, which permits further
specification of the reason for entry. Here the Button Panel reason is selected. When the Select a
Reason button is touched, the screen displays as shown in Fig. 74. The sections stored in the
system appear, with B08 being selected in response to a touch from the user. The bank and seat
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      64

text fields must each be touched and the corresponding number for each entered using the
keyboard. When the Apply button is touched the information is sent to the server, which first
checks to confirm that a slot machine numbered 04 in bank 31 of section B08 is listed in the
stored machines. If so, the Active Call screen of Fig. 75 is presented.
         When the door is opened, the sensor causes the system to present the screen depicted in
Fig. 76 in which a Comment button is added. From there the call proceeds like any other, i.e., as
if it had been generated in response to a system signal.
         Consideration will now be given to how a user is presented with a system-generated call
that normally does not require entry into a machine, but during the course of the call, the door is
opened. In Fig. 77, a user is offered a call in response to a change light turned on by a player at
the displayed slot machine location. The user accepts the call, and the screen then appears as
shown in Fig. 78. After arrival, the user touches the Arrive button or inserts their card into the
card reader, and the screen assumes the view of Fig. 79.
         During the course of the call, the user determines that he or she must enter the machine.
This may happen, for instance, when the customer asks the user to check the game history.
When the door is opened, the sensor signals the system, which presents a scrollable menu as
shown in Fig. 80, which is the same as that shown in Figs. 69-70. Here, the new call is a
Machine Entry, which the user touches. This brings up the same scrollable submenu
functionality shown in Figs. 71-73. Because the list shown in Figs. 69-70 is generated by
touching the Create a Call button, it is headed Speed Call Type. The list in Fig. 80 is created in
response to the door opening on a call not normally requiring machine entry. As a result, it is
captioned Create a new call?
         After the call is created, it proceeds as any other call. For the system to create the MEAL
log entry, several conditions must be satisfied: a) the user must be carded in to the machine, b)
there must be a call at the machine, c) the card in at the machine is associated with the user who
accepted the call, and d) the user has selected a MEAL reason via their device.
         There is also a call that can be created when, for whatever reason, the user's iOS device
is not communicating with the server. Such a condition may occur when, e.g., the wireless
network is down or the server is not functioning properly. It is of course desirable to continue
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       65

service to machines and to log data regarding such service-especially machine entry events,
which are closely monitored by casino operators and regulators.
         Fig. 81 depicts the display on screen 260 when a user cannot log in. The Connect button
sends a wireless signal to initiate communication with the server but if it cannot be made, the
user can touch the Offline Meal Entry button, which produces the screen shown in Fig. 82. This
screen provides for entry of various data that is stored locally on the user's iOS device until the
connection to the server is restored when it is then uploaded to the server and stored with the
other call and MEAL records. The user enters his or her Login and PIN and may also enter a
reason for entry in the Comments box using the touch screen keyboard, not visible in Fig. 82.
Next, the user touches an arrow 268, which calls up the screen of Fig. 83. This screen enables
the user to enter information identifying the machine that he or she is preparing to enter and
functions similarly to the manner described in connection with Fig. 74. When the Apply button
is touched, the screen again reverts to the display of Fig. 82, and the user touches a second
arrow 270, which produces the display in Fig. 84. This permits the user to enter a reason in a
fashion similar to that described in connection with Figs. 71-73. Once the reason is selected, the
screen of Fig. 82 appears again, and the user may touch the Save button, which stores it locally.
         When the connection to the server is restored, the entry is automatically transmitted to
be stored as a system record. Once transmitted, the entry is first checked for validity. The
location entered must correspond to a valid machine, the record for which is stored in the
system. And the employee identified in the login name must exist and be in the Slots
department.
         In Fig. 85, the supervisor Stats page is displayed with one of the categories being Total
MEAL entries 272. When category 272 is touched, details by call appear in the format shown in
Fig. 86.
         Each of the types of MEAL entries discussed above include the following data: date,
time, Reason for entry/Duties performed, Comments (if any), User's name, and Badge number.
In addition, each entry is associated with data related to the machine that the entry documents.
Information about each machine is stored on or accessible by the system and includes: Machine
number, Serial number, Location, Program name, Program number, Certification number,
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       66

Purchase date, On floor date, Off floor date, Sale date, and Model type. As a result, reports may
be generated in a variety of ways to review information related to machine entries, e.g., by
machine, by employee, by section, etc.
         The system creates a potential MEAL record each time a call is dispatched because, as
described above, a machine may be entered during any call-even one that was not initiated as a
call that requires machine entry. The potential record, which includes the employee
identification and call data is not stored in a MEAL entry unless and until either the sensor
indicates an open door on the machine that is associated with the call (whether system or user
initiated), or when the user responds with Yes when presented with a panel asking if the
machine was opened, like that shown in Fig. 68.
         It can therefore be seen that this system constrains users by requiring MEAL entries
under certain conditions, and by automatically collecting and entering the required information.
Finishing now the MEAL description with reference to the flow charts in Figs. 87-89, indicated
generally at 274 in Figs. 87A and 87B is a flow chart that summarizes an operation when a user
receives a call that typically requires machine entry, such as printer, validator, or general tilt
malfunctions. Figs. 87A and 87B are self-explanatory, and portray mostly previously described
functionality. One feature bears further discussion, namely the ability of a non-dispatched user
to intercept a call. In step 276, a dispatched user, i.e., one who has accepted a call has not
arrived within a reasonable period of time. Another user could happen to be in the area of the
machine or could be assigned to the call by a supervisor. The non-dispatched user can take over
a call in one of two ways-either by inserting his or her card in the card reader of the machine
to which the call is dispatched in step 278 or by using their iOS device to join or create a call in
step 280. Either way, the system recognizes that another user is assigned to the call, referred to
as a carded-in user in step 278, although the user might have been recognized in step 280
without actually inserting a card. From there the call proceeds with the non-dispatched user in
the same manner as if the dispatched user had arrived and begun work.
         Figs. 88A and 88B summarize an operation when a user is dispatched on a call that
typically does not require a MEAL entry. In step 282 in Fig. 88B, if the user does not open the
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       67

machine door, the call proceeds like any other. If, however, the door is opened, a MEAL entry
 is created and stored.
         Fig. 89 depicts an operation in which a user provides non-dispatched service to a
machine beginning at step 284. This call can be user initiated either by inserting the user's card
 at branch 286 or by creating a call on his or her iOS device at branch 288. If the service selected
by the user does not require machine entry, the call proceeds as a non-MEAL call in step 290. If
 a reason for entry is selected in step 292, and the door is opened in step 294, the MEAL entry is
 created in step 296.
         Finally, one aspect of machine entry relates to system-defined illegal entries. If no user
 is linked to the server, either via employee card or by a successfully completed call creation or
joined call, and a door opens, an illegal alert is generated on a supervisor's iOS device. If there
 is no call at the machine or if there is a call but no MEAL reason is provided and a door opens,
 an alert is also generated. An alert is also generated if the user is on a call but it is a different
machine from where the machine entry occurred.
         Another feature of the present system relates to fair distribution of offers to accept
jackpot calls. Some casinos pool their tips and split the pooled tips based on the amount of
hours worked. Others permit employees to keep all of their tips. In the latter operations, it is
 important to give everyone equal opportunity to be dispatched on calls to complete jackpots,
which is where the majority of tips is earned.
          The present implementation maintains a sequential jackpot eligibility list for each
 section in Fig. 5. Before any jackpots area awarded, everyone is on an equal basis. The list
 includes each user assigned to a particular section and each user in a section that is associated
with the particular section. Initially all users are ranked in order from the user logged in the
 longest time to the one logged in the shortest time.
         When the first jackpot hits, the system starts at the top of the list and works down until
 an available user is located. Available here means not on a pending or active call and not on
break. When the available user is located, the jackpot call is offered to the user. Regardless of
whether the user accepts, defers, quits, or completes the call, that user is moved to the bottom of
the list as a result of having been offered the jackpot call. If the user defers or otherwise does
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        68

not complete the call, the system again starts at the top of the list and moves down in sequence
to offer the call to the next available user, and so on.
         When the next jackpot hits, the system again starts at the top of the list and works down
until an available user is located, who is offered the call and moved to the bottom of the list. If
the user defers or otherwise does not complete the call, the system again starts at the top of the
list and moves down in sequence to offer the call to the next available user, and so on.
         There is another routing feature that a casino will likely use when implementing the
present system, namely giving priority to certain types of calls. First, on a floor that is
adequately staffed during a time when slot machines are not particularly busy, all calls may be
offered as soon as the system receives them. In other words, there are available users who are
neither on a pending or active call nor on break. But often, especially when the floor gets busy,
the calls are coming in faster than they can be serviced. As a result, a queue of calls is formed.
In the past, because it is desirable to quickly respond to jackpot calls, those calls were always
placed at the top of the queue rather than at the bottom. But the remaining non-jackpot calls
were all serviced in first-in-first-out time order.
         The present implementation permits calls to be prioritized based on a variety of factors.
Each call is assigned a priority level ranging from 1 to 9, with 9 being the lowest priority call
and 1, the highest. In addition to assigning a priority level when the call first enters the queue,
the priority may change after the call is initially queued as a result of events that occur after the
call first enters the queue. The following Table 7 illustrates one way in which calls are initially
ordered in the queue.
                          Ranking                Regular Call           Jackpot Call
                         Uncarded Player         9                      7
                         Silver                  8                      7
                         Gold                    7                      5
                         Platinum                6                      4
                         Elite                   5                      3
                                            Table 7
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      69

         When an event from a machine comes in, it is tentatively assigned either a 9, if a regular
call, or a 7, if a jackpot call. If there is a carded player playing the machine that generated the
event, the player ID is attached to the event message. This permits the system to look up the
player and determine the player ranking, with one example of ranking being shown in Table 7.
The priorities are then assigned according to Table 7 and the call is placed in the queue in
chronological order of the time it came in with each call having an assigned priority value. This
queue may be displayed on a supervisor's device as Unserviced Calls, as shown in Fig. 21. This
queue is always maintained in the chronological order in which the call was received. In the
present implementation the priority value does not appear on a display, although it easily could.
         Several different parameters can escalate any call to a higher priority value. For every 30
seconds that passes between initial generation of the call and before the call is accepted, the
priority level increases by one, e.g., a 9 goes to an 8, a 6 to a 5, and so forth. As a result, older
calls steadily increase in priority.
         As responders complete calls, go of break, log in, or otherwise become available to take
a call, the system offers calls based on priority value, i.e., all with 1 values are first offered, all
with 2 values are next offered, etc. And within each rank, e.g., all with 1 values, calls are
offered in first-in-first-out order.
         In addition, calls may be manually deferred by a user, automatically deferred by the
system if the user does not respond to the offer in a timely fashion, and reassigned by a
supervisor. Any one of these events also results in an increase (toward higher priority) of one in
priority value. As a result, when the call is returned to the queue after deferral or reassignment,
it is assigned to a higher priority group and is more likely to be serviced sooner.
         With this system, highly ranked players may receive more prompt service, which is
consistent with the operator's goal of paying special attention to the top players. But even an
uncarded player who has had to wait for a long time for service may ultimately receive service
before a highly ranked player as a result of the priority assignment. These priority values and
adjustments to them, may be modified to satisfy a casino's service goals. For example, the 30
second time to increase priority value could be modified. Or newly carded players could be
granted a higher priority. Or the highest rank could always go to the top priority.
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                         70

         The various embodiments of the system described above, improve the experience of a
consumer within a commercial environment. As is obvious, customer satisfaction is essential to
gaining repeat business.
        Although this discussion describes consumers in the role of gamblers or potential
gamblers within a casino, this system is equally beneficial in any gambling environment
including within a traditional casino, via mobile communication device, such as a phone, pad or
laptop computer and when the consumer is at home via the same devices along with a more
traditional fixed personal computer or game device such a Microsoft's Xbox.
         The system is also applicable to non-gambling businesses where consumer
gratification-leaving the consumer with a positive memory of an experience-is important. In
sum, this system may be equally well implemented in any commercial enterprise, both gambling
and non-gambling and with physical or virtual presence.
        In casino operations, consumer satisfaction is presumed to exist when services are
delivered within defined parameters. For example, if a consumer experiences a problem and an
agent provides assistance within a prescribed time, it is presumed the consumer is satisfied.
        In practice, satisfaction is determined more by the respect, consideration, recognition,
empathy, and kindness with which the service is delivered rather than with than the actual
service itself or the speed with which it is delivered.
        Modem casinos lack the tools with which to personalize services for individual
consumers, motivate user agents to deliver satisfying experiences or to measure the performance
of users or actual satisfaction of consumers.
         The systems described above make it possible to personalize services for consumers,
motivate user agents to deliver respectful and gratifying services, and measure the level of
consumer satisfaction with each service delivered.
         The present development relates to dispatch systems and more particularly to such
systems that are implemented via computer networks.
        It is known in connection with such systems to include a feature that prevents an
employee from being dispatched in response to a service light button at a gaming device that
was inadvertently depressed. In the normal course of business, a player presses the button,
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      71

which lights a light on the gaming device. Before computer-implemented dispatch systems,
attendants walked the floor looking for lights that were on to see what service the player might
need, e.g., to order a beverage or get some change. Once the attendant arrives, the light is
switched off and the service is provided. In this system if a player, housecleaner, or attendant
accidentally pressed the button, which happens on a regular basis, he or she simply switches the
light off.
         When computerized dispatch systems came into use, the systems detected a light-on
network packet, also referred to as a light-on event, which was generated in response to
actuating a service-light button at an identified slot machine. As a result, simply turning the
light off-even if done immediately-in and of itself would not prevent the original event from
generating a call. The prior art did, however, also detect light-off packets (events) that are
generated whenever a service-light button was turned off. The light-off events also carried
information that identified the machine where the light was turned off. To prevent at least some
unnecessary calls from being generated, each light-on event is stored in a queue for a
predetermined length of time, e.g., 15 seconds. In addition, every light-off event that comes in is
checked against each event in the queue to see if they are associated with the same machine. If
so, the light-on event is removed from the queue and the call is never generated. But if the light
on event remains in the queue for the full 15 seconds, a call for that machine is generated.
         In this prior art system, once a call is generated it is not cleared, i.e., canceled, even if
the light is turned off after the 15-second delay.
         The present development provides for clearing calls that no longer require a response as
a result of a detected network signal. It also addresses calls that should not be generated or
should be cleared after generation in response to an earlier-received network signal (as opposed
to a later-received network signal as is the case with the service light) that indicates the call is
not necessary. And it facilitates use of several different events to suppress or cancel a call, use
of one event to suppress or cancel several different calls, and use of several different events that
would each suppress or cancel several different calls.
         The present system can deal with virtually any type of event or call that is generated.
One example, discussed above, is the change light, which is the only event that the prior art
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        72

dealt with. And once a call was generated, there was no clearing it. In this system, however, a
change light call can be cleared at any time when the change light is turned off, which generates
a corresponding light-off event, so long as the attendant has not arrived at the machine, i.e.,
swiped the arrived slider on his or her device. This is an example of a subsequent event clearing
a prior event.
        Another example relates to a proprietary slot management system that generates both a
machine-paid jackpot packet/event and a jackpot packet/event for the same player award. These
events are used by the system for accounting purposes. The jackpot event is used by the
dispatch system to dispatch attendants to hand pay and verify jackpots over a certain amount.
But if the jackpot has been machine paid, there is no need to dispatch attendants for a hand pay.
Put differently, if there is a jackpot event that is not preceded by a hand-pay event, the
attendants should be dispatched for a hand pay.
         Still another example relates to bill-acceptor jams. Such jams generate a jam event on
the network that is used to create a call. Each time a bill acceptor accepts a different
denomination of currency, a different event is generated, e.g., $10 accepted, $20 accepted, etc.
If a jam event is followed by an event of any bill being accepted it is desirable to clear the call,
assuming it has not been accepted. This scenario, a jam followed by an accepted bill, could
occur if an attendant cleared the jam because he or she was nearby and cleared the jam without
being on a system generated call.
         The table in the co-pending application refers only to calls, but each of these calls was
triggered by a corresponding event. Any of these events could be used to clear any other event,
multiple events could be used to clear one event, multiple events could be cleared by one event,
and each of multiple events could be cleared by each of other multiple events.
        At the network level, a database table is created that incorporates the rules. An
exemplary format, and including a single exemplary entry, for such a table is below. The actual
table has many rows, each of which comprises a separate rule.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       73

                                                   Rule Table
           Event         Event         Event       Hold      On/Off     Time
           Code A        Code B        Type        Time                 Stamp
           200             190            2          30      True       2013-07-12 10:48:46
           The first two columns are event codes, some of which are used to trigger calls in the
table in the co-pending application. Because different manufactures of slot systems each use
proprietary codes to designate an event, it is necessary to map each of those into a
 corresponding code in the present system. For example, the above table depicts code 200 in the
 first column, which corresponds to a service-light on event regardless of which slot
management system the slot machines are connected to. And Event Code B in the second
 column corresponds to a service-light off event.
          The Event Type column is an entry that indicates which of two ways the rule will be
 applied. One way is: If event A occurs before event B within the configured duration (Hold
 Time = 30 seconds), ignore event B. This is the example given above relating to a machine-paid
jackpot event and a jackpot event, which is hand paid. The other way is: If event B occurs after
 event A, ignore event A. This corresponds to the service light and bill acceptor examples. In this
nomenclature, event A always occurs before event B, but depending upon which of two types of
processing is applied either event A will be ignored or event B will. The service light rule
 shown in the first row is the second event type, i.e., if event A occurs before event B within the
 configured duration (Hold Time = 30 seconds), ignore event B.
          The on/off column indicates whether the rule is currently in effect. The last column is a
time stamp indicating when the rule was last updated. In the present embodiment the only
 colunms that can be updated are Hold Time and On/Off, and casino personnel can configure
 each of these as desired.
          In operation, all of the events collected from the network stream into the system. Each
 event comprises a packet that identifies the nature of the event (the event code) and the machine
 from which it originated. Each event is checked against the table to see if it has a code that
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        74

corresponds to one in the table, either event A or B. If so, it is stored in a memory location that
corresponds to the particular machine associated with that event.
         And as each new event is stored in memory, it is compared with each of the events
previously stored to see if one of the rules in the table above applies. Put differently, each stored
item is checked against each new item to see if the stored item includes an Event Code A from
one of the rows and the new event includes an Event Code B from the same row. For example,
if a stored event associated with a particular machine includes Event Code 200 (service light on)
each event is checked to see if it includes an Event Code 190 (service light off). If so the rule in
the first row shown above is applied, i.e., the stored event having Event Code 200 is cleared
from memory. As a result, a service light call is not created.
         The Hold Time is the amount of time each event is stored in memory before it is cleared.
If the event sits in memory for the entire hold time without the rule being applied, it is
consequently removed from memory and used to create a call. In the case of an event coded
200, which is in the rule in the first row, a service light call is created.
         Once any call is created, it is also stored in memory at the location associated with the
machine that generated the event from which the call was produced up until the time the
attendant swipes the arrived slider on his or her device, which clears the call from memory.
Each stored call in memory is checked against the rule table and each incoming event, just like
each of the stored events are checked. If the event code that was used to create the stored call
corresponds to an Event Code A from one of the rules and the incoming event comprise an
Event Code B from the same rule (row), the rule is applied.
         For example, one sequence could be that an event having code 200 (light on) for a
particular machine arrives and is stored in memory at the location associated with the machine
where the light was turned on. Additional arriving events are checked against the stored light-on
event, but the hold time lapses without a code 190 event (light off) arriving for that machine. As
a result, the rule in the first row is not applied to this light-on event and it is cleared from
memory and used to generate a light-on call, which sends the call to an attendant's device. As
this call is generated it is stored in the memory location associated with the machine, i.e., the
same location from which the event that was used to create the call was just cleared.
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        75

        Each new incoming event and call is checked against each stored event and call to see if
one of the rules applies. In the present case if an event code 190 comes in before the attendant
swipes the arrived slider on his or her device in response to the call based on event code 200,
the call is cleared from the memory. If the employee has accepted the call but not yet arrived,
the call is cleared and the employee is notified via the device that the call is no longer active.
        A prior event may clear a subsequent call and a call may be cleared by a subsequent
event. In other words, the two event type rules apply equally well when Event Codes A and B
are both events or when one is a call and the other is an event. In addition, as when rules are
applied only to events, a single call may be cleared by multiple events.
        It should be noted that when multiple events clear a single event or call, or vice versa, or
when each of multiple events clears each of different multiple events or calls, each possible
combination of events and calls require a separate rule (row) in the table.
        Here is an exemplary list of events and corresponding events (labeled anti-events) that
could be used to cancel the event:
        Event                                                  Anti-event
         Change light on                                       Change light off
        Machine paid JP before 1150 event                      JP hopper paid
        Bill validator hardware error                          Bills in, ticket in (one to many)
        Bill acceptor jam                                      Bills in, ticket in (one to many)
        Printer jam                                            Printer reset
        BE2 offline                                            BE2 online
        Illegal drop door open                                 Drop door closed
        Bill acceptor removed                                  Bill acceptor inserted
         Ticket printer off                                    Ticket printer on
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      76

        Hopper low                                             Hopper full
         Game disabled                                         Game enabled
        Attendant was requested                                Attendant request canceled
        Drink service requested                                Drink service canceled
        Account pin locked                                     Account pin unlocked
        Paper low                                              Paper full
                One to many in the list above refers to a plurality of anti-events, in this case any
denomination of bill or any value of ticket, which could be used to cancel a single
corresponding event.
         Turning now to Fig. 90, a status screen 300 is on another mobile computing device (not
visible). User Gracie D., whose name appears in the upper left corner of screen 300, has logged
into the device. Users are also referred to herein as service agents. As with other embodiments,
screen 300 displays the user's supervisor, sections to which she is assigned, and her role,
namely Floor Attendant. A break switch 302 is activated by touch to indicate when the user is
on a break as previously described.
        In Fig. 91, a call has been automatically offered by the system to Gracie based on her
qualifications and location, as previously described. Here a panel 304 appears until Gracie hits
the Accept or Defer buttons on the panel. The panel indicates that identified player Sam Jones,
who is a highly ranked player (Platinum) based on his play, has hit a $1200 jackpot at machine
B098501, which is in Gracie's section. Gracie hits the Accept button on panel 304, and screen
307 appears as shown in Fig. 92.
        In Fig. 92, the Calls icon in the navigation bar includes a circular badge indicating that
the user is working on a single call. Gracie heads towards machine B098501. When she arrives
at the machine, she touches the Arrive button, and screen 307 appears as shown in Fig. 93. Now
Gracie needs complete the call by doing her part to hand pay the $1200 jackpot. If she
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      77

 encounters a problem that she cannot resolve, she can hit the Escalate button to bring in a co
worker as described above. If not, once her role in hand paying the jackpot is complete, she hits
the Complete button in Fig. 93, and awaits another call.
         Before moving on, consideration will be given to the logistics of hand paying jackpots in
 a casino. Taxing authorities, such as the IRS, require tax forms, e.g., a W2-G, for gambling
winnings over a set amount. This necessitates that jackpots above that amount be hand paid so
that the necessary player identification and social security number may be obtained to satisfy
these requirements. Although policy can vary from casino to casino, at most places hand paid
jackpots need to be witnessed. As a result, hand pays always involve at least two employees,
 and usually several more. For example, when jackpots are above a certain level, at least one
person with security will accompany a cashier or the attendant after he or she retrieves the
money to take to the winning player. Further the attendant must get identification, including a
 social security number, from the player to generate the appropriate tax paperwork. The larger
the jackpot, the more people will be required. At a certain level, the supervisor usually must
witness the hand pay, and at even higher jackpot levels the slot manager and/or casino manager
may also be included. During this process, the attendant must prepare the tax forms, act as a
witness, and often take a picture of the winner that the casino uses for publicity. As a result,
hand paying a jackpot requires coordination among a number of people doing different things at
 different times. This can leave the attendant, while still on the call, with idle time while others
 are doing their part.
         In high limit games, hand paid jackpots may be hit quite frequently. As a result, there are
multiple jackpots being hand paid in these areas. What is more, it is not uncommon for a high
 limit player to have multiple hand-pay jackpots in process simultaneously. This can happen in at
 least two ways. First, gaming machines typically lock up after a jackpot that must be hand paid.
 This prevents further play so that the win can be verified and the jackpot paid. After the jackpot
 is processed at least in part, the attendant uses his or her key to reactivate the slot machine. In
 some casinos, the player may resume play on the machine before the forms are completed and
the jackpot paid. While a first jackpot is being hand paid, as described above, a second one, and
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        78

possibly even a third, may be hit on the same machine and the hand-pay process started for
 each.
          Second, the player may have multiple hand-pay jackpots in process simultaneously
because he or she is playing several machines, typically adjacent to each other. Such a player
will often have multiple player-tracking cards, one in each machine, so that the player can
receive appropriate recognition from the casino for all of his or her play. Having simultaneous
hand-paid    jackpots in process    for a single player may result from a combination of the two,
namely having multiple jackpots on a one machine while having multiple jackpots on different
machines.
          In prior art dispatch systems, each hand-paid jackpot is a different call and may produce
 a different attendant to process each jackpot, even when the jackpots are payable to a single
player at a single machine or closely adjacent machines. This is both inefficient and potentially
problematic for the player. Sometimes a first attendant takes the player's identification and
 social security number to process a first jackpot. A second attendant may then receive the same
 identification and social security number from the first attendant while the second attendant is
processing the first jackpot. Then the first attendant returns and pays the jackpot without the
 identification because the second attendant has it. And then the second attendant returns the
 identification. This can leave the player wondering how many people are passing around his or
her identification and social security number. It is better for a number of reasons if a single
 attendant can process all jackpots that are currently in process for a single player.
          Returning again to the drawings, it will be recalled that the attendant, Gracie, was on a
 call to hand pay a $1200 jackpot, in Fig. 93. While on the call, she receives an indication that
the same player, Sam Jones, has hit a jackpot via a panel 306 in Fig. 94. Note that panel 306
 does not give Gracie the opportunity to accept or defer; it merely notifies her that she is
 assigned to hand pay a second jackpot to the player for which she is already paying a first
jackpot. Gracie hits OK on panel 306, and the screen in Fig. 95 appears.
          Fig. 95 is a list of all current calls that Gracie has either accepted-and as will later be
 seen, created, joined, or intercepted-or been assigned to as with the case of the jackpot in Fig.
 94. The badge in the Calls status icon now shows the numeral 2 indicating that Gracie has two
                                                                      Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                           79

 current calls. Because the call list in Fig. 95 includes machine numbers, it can be seen that Sam
has hit hand-payable jackpots on adjacent machine numbers, B098502 and B098501. This
typically indicates that the machines are adjacent one another.
         In Fig. 95, Gracie touches the top call, namely that $5000 jackpot, which is On Hold,
 and the screen in Fig. 96 appears. Shortly after doing so, yet another panel 308 appears
 informing Gracie that she is assigned to a third jackpot hit by Sam Jones. It should be noted that
the $5000 jackpot call remains On Hold until Gracie hits the Arrive button, which is visible in
Fig. 96. Doing so would make the $5000 call active and place the other current calls On Hold.
 The system permits only one active call at a time; the others are on hold. After panel 308
 appears, Gracie hits the OK button on the panel and the call list with all three calls appears in
Fig. 97. It can be seen that the three jackpots on are on three consecutive machine numbers,
which typically indicates three adjacent machines. Also, the badge on the Calls icon now
 indicates three current calls, only one of which is active at a time. Here the $1200 jackpot
remains active. In Fig. 97, Gracie touches the $1200 call to return to its call screen, and the
 screen of Fig. 98 appears. Gracie processes this jackpot call as described above, and hits the
 Complete button, which again returns her to the call list in Fig. 99, now having only two calls
because the $1200 call is completed.
         In Fig. 99, Gracie has a choice of which call to touch and thereby bring up its call
 screen. She choses the $5000 jackpot, which brings up the screen of Fig. 100. She quickly hits
the Arrive button in Fig. 100-because the machine is adjacent the machine on which she just
processed the $1200 hand-pay for Mr. Jones. Doing so brings up the screen shown in Fig. 101.
 She finishes processing the $5000 jackpot, hits the Complete button in Fig. 101, and the call
 screen for the only remaining call, shown in Fig. 102, appears. This happens because there is no
reason to go to a call list to permit the attendant to select which call he or she wants to process
next as happened in the transition from Fig. 98 to Fig. 99.
         Now Gracie is working on the only other call, namely the $1750 jackpot. She hits the
Arrive button in Fig. 102, the screen of Fig. 103 appears, Gracie finishes processing this
jackpot, hits the Compete button, and her Calls screen is empty as shown in Fig. 104.
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       80

         Although in the above scenario, Gracie processed each jackpot sequentially, she could
have switched back and forth among them at her option. For example, in Fig. 98, Gracie might
have completed part of the processing of the $1200 jackpot, e.g., obtaining the player's
 identification and social security number, but is waiting for the cashier to issue the cash. By
touching the < Calls list button 310 in Fig. 98, the screen returns to the call list showing all
 current calls and their status as in Figs. 97 and 99. She can then select any other call, which
brings that call to her Calls screen as shown, e.g., in Figs. 98 and 100. If she has not yet arrived
 at the call, by touching the Arrive button, she can do so thus making the call Active. This makes
that call active and puts all the others on hold. For any call already arrived at, returning to its
 call screen automatically activates the selected call and places the others On Hold. In this
manner an attendant may work towards processing multiple jackpots for the same player when
 she has become idle on one of the calls.
          This is implemented by the system, which checks every hand-pay jackpot call to
 determine whether the same player has an active hand-pay jackpot. If so, the system assigns the
new jackpot call to the same attendant.
         In another example, after a quite period with no calls, Gracie receives a Change Light
 On call at B098502 as shown in Fig. 105. She touches the Accept button on a panel 312, and the
 call screen in Fig. 106 appears with the badge on the Calls icon showing one current call. After
 arriving at B098502, Gracie hits the Arrive button in Fig. 106, and Fig. 107 appears showing the
Active screen for the Change Light Call and that Gracie can now either Escalate or Complete
the call. But before doing either, Sam Jones hits a $2000 jackpot as indicated in a panel 314,
which appears as a system-generated call over the Change Light Call screen in Fig. 107.
Because the Jackpot call is for the same identified player as the Active Change Light Call, the
jackpot call is automatically assigned by the system to the attendant who is handling the Change
Light Call, namely Gracie. After being so notified by panel 314, Gracie touches the OK button
 on the panel. In response, Gracie is shown the call list (not shown in the drawings) and can
 select either of the calls to work as described in the first example. In alternative embodiment,
panel 314 disappears after the OK button is touched and the Change Light Call, upon which
 Gracie was working when the jackpot was assigned, remains on the screen as in Fig. 108. Either
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       81

way, Gracie may always revert to the call list by touching < Calls list button 310. When she
does so in Fig. 108, the calls list in Fig. 109 appears showing the location of each call and the
status, either Active or On Hold. In Fig. 109, Gracie decides to work on the jackpot so she
touches that call on the screen and the jackpot call screen appears as shown in Fig. 110.
         After beginning work on the jackpot call, another jackpot to the same player is assigned
to Gracie in Fig. 111 via a panel 316. Gracie hits the OK button on panel 316 and is presented
with the list of all her current calls in Fig. 112. Note that all of the calls are to a single player
who is carded in to two adjacent machines. Machine B098502 has a Change Light On call and
machine B098501 has two jackpots, which can happen when one hand-pay jackpot is partially
processed, the machine is reactivated, and another hand-pay jackpot is soon hit. As before,
Gracie may switch among the calls based on her senses of the importance, e.g., size of jackpot,
the length of time the call has been outstanding, and her availability as a result of idle time on
one of the calls. In Fig. 112, Gracie touches the second call, the Jackpot for $1800, and its call
screen appears in Fig. 113. Once Gracie is at machine B098501 and ready to process the $1800
Jackpot, she may touch the Arrive button in Fig. 113 and begin processing the call. Rather than
following this example through the processing of all the calls, attention will now be given to
another example.
         In Fig. 114, another attendant, Charlie J. has just received a call for a Bill Acceptor Full
at machine B098501. A panel 318 appears, Charlie choses to accept the call, and does so by
touching the Accept button on the panel. This brings the call screen up in Fig. 115. Like hand
pay jackpots, Bill Acceptor Full calls take some time, require the efforts of multiple employees
to complete and typically leave the attendant with some idle time. This results from having to
involve personnel who deal with large amounts of cash, e.g., security and the cashier, to empty
the bill acceptor at the machine with accompanying accounting entries. The attendant
consequently has some idle time while the call is still active during which he or she is waiting
for others to arrive and/or to complete work that does not involve the attendant.
         Once Charlie has accepted the call and arrived at the machine, he hits the Arrive button
(the resulting screen not shown in the drawings) in Fig. 115 and begins his work. After
completing his initial work, Charlie touches the Status button in the navigation bar to produce
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       82

the screen of Fig. 116. He then touches the Busy switch, changing it from its Busy mode to its
Not Busy mode. This indicates that, while still handling a current call, he is available to respond
to an escalation of another call. It should be noted that the Busy switch automatically appears
and replaces the Break switch (like Gracie D.'s Break switch 302 in Fig. 90) when a user is on a
call. Users cannot go on a break when they are on a call so a Break switch is not needed during
a call. The Busy switch has two modes: Busy and Not Busy. When a user goes from not being
on a call to being on a call the Busy switch automatically replaces the Break switch and
automatically appears in its Busy mode. But a user may manually switch modes from Busy to
Not Busy and back again. Charlie is reminded that changing to the Not Busy mode will change
his status as shown in Fig. 117 where a panel 320 appears indicating that, if he touches the OK
button, he will be available for escalated calls. Charlie does so and soon receives an escalated
call as indicated by a panel 322 in Fig. 118. Charlie touches the Accept button on panel 322, and
the screen in Fig. 119 appears listing his current calls, namely the call to which he was just
escalated and the Bill Acceptor Full call, which is now on hold as a result of acceptance of the
escalated call.
         When Charlie arrives at section B09, he determines that there is a communications
problem with machine B09: 503, and creates a call at that machine by inserting his employee
card into the card reader. This newly created all appears on the calls list in Fig. 120. From there
Charlie touches that call on the list to bring up its all screen in Fig. 121. Charlie then works
through his current calls as described above.
          Turning now to another example, in Fig. 122, the screen on attendant Gracie D.'s device
is again depicted. A panel 324 offers a General Tilt call to Gracie, which she accepts by
touching the Accept button on panel 324, thus producing the call screen in Fig. 123. Before
arriving at the General Tilt call, Gracie touches < Calls list button 3 10, which returns her to the
call list in Fig. 124. It now has only the one call on it, but this panel also gives Gracie access to
the Join a Call and Create a Call buttons. Gracie touches the Join a Call button in Fig. 124,
which produces a list of all calls that Gracie is qualified to join in Fig. 125. There is only one
such call, namely Printer Paper Out at machine B094104. Gracie touches the call thereby
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       83

highlighting it as shown in Fig. 126. She then touches the Join Call button, her calls list again
appears in Fig. 127 including the call just joined, which is now Active.
        As Gracie is moving about on the floor to complete her calls, she passes a machine with
a change light on and decides to respond to that and does so by creating a call. This is
accomplished first by touching the Create a Call button in Fig. 127, which produces a panel 326
on the screen in Fig. 128. This reminds Gracie that her current active call will be held if she
takes one of three actions: creating, joining, or stealing a call. (Stealing a call is also referred to
herein as intercepting a call.) Gracie touches the OK button and is presented with the Speed Call
screen in Fig. 129. As previously described, the Speed Call feature may be used to implement
the Create a Call function.
        On the screen in Fig. 129, Gracie touches Change under Change light and hits the Next
button. This displays her current calls in Fig. 130 on the calls list, including the just created
Change Light call. Alternatively, Gracie could have created the Change Light call simply by
inserting her employee card into the card reader associated with the machine with the
illuminated change light.
        In Fig. 130, Gracie decides to work on the Change call and touches it thus bringing up
the Change call screen in Fig. 131. She makes change and touches the Complete button in Fig.
 131 thus returning her to the calls list (not shown in the drawings). This time she touches the
Printer Paper Out call on the calls list, which generates the Printer Paper Out call screen in Fig.
 132. After arriving at machine B094104, Gracie touches the Arrive button in Fig. 132, and the
screen of Fig. 133 appears. Because Gracie had to open the machine to replace the printer paper,
a MEAL entry panel 328 appears in Fig. 134, in which Gracie has entered: "Added more
paper."
        It can be seen that these features add a lot of flexibility and efficiency. An attendant may
make himself or herself available to receive escalated calls even while on another call.
        In addition, he or she may create, join, or intercept another call while on a call. This
enables an employee who may be covering a lot of territory on the floor to efficiently route calls
by location and the order in which they are initiated and worked. For example, if the attendant is
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      84

on the way to one call at a relatively remote location, he or she can create, join, or intercept one
or more calls while in the way to the remote call.
        Also, the same attendant handles jackpots and other simultaneous calls to the same
player, whether on the same machine, adjacent machines, or both.
        In any of these scenarios, the attendant may switch among the calls, i.e., by making
different ones of the calls active while the others are On Hold, as needed or desired under the
circumstances.
        A programmer with ordinary skill in the art may create computer code that implements
the above functions as described.
         Turning now to Fig. 135, indicated generally at 330 is a mobile computing device that is
included in another embodiment. Mobile computing device 330 is interconnected with the
system shown in Fig. 4 in a similar manner to other embodiments, but includes additional
features as will be described. Device 330 includes a display screen having a Welcome screen
image 332 displayed on the screen. Screen image 332 includes a color bar 334 at the top thereof.
The color bar is green when activity on the casino floor is slow relative to the number of
employees to service customer needs. Bar 334 is yellow to indicate an intermediate level of
activity and red when the activity is high and employees must quickly execute each task to
prevent delays. As will be seen, this embodiment facilitates in-person communication between a
player and the employee who carries mobile device 330. The color bar can guide the employee
in determining how much time and attention to give each player.
        When the user of device 330, in this case Emily who has logged in on the device as
previously described, swipes to the right on the screen, image 336 in Fig. 136 appears. This
screen permits the employee to select a floor zone and to be removed from receiving calls,
temporarily in the case of a break, or to indicate the end of her shift.
        When Emily swipes image 332 in Fig. 135 in the other direction, screen image 338 in
Fig. 137 appears. When Emily touches one of the 4 categories displayed on the screen, she can
enter a note using a conventional screen keyboard (not shown), which appears after one of the
categories is touched. Emily enters a note related to the subject matter of the category and the
note is tagged with the associated category and stored in a database on the system. This enables
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      85

searching using the category as a key word to locate notes within a category. The searching can
be accomplished from any computing device operatively connected to either the wireless
network, the Internet, or to one of the servers in Fig. 4.
         The Welcome screen image in Fig. 135 is displayed unless Emily has swiped to pull up
screen 336 or screen 338 or device 330 receives a call for Emily. When a call is received, screen
image 340 in Fig. 138 appears. This call was automatically generated as a result of an identified
player, Nicole, inserting her player-tracking card into a reader associated with an electronic
gaming device for the first time today. Because Nicole's player tracking record includes her
photo, it appears on image 340. As will be described in more detail, this embodiment generates
a call for an employee to greet a player in response to any one of a number of detected events
such as in the present case, the first card-in of the day.
         Screen image 340 includes the name of the call, Greet, at the top left. This is the name
for a call that is responsive to the first card-in of the day. As can be seen there is a number, in
this case the numeral 7, in parentheses next to Greet. This is the total number of previous
interactions Emily has had with Nicole. Immediately to the right is the device number, in this
case #231. This informs Emily at which gaming device Nicole has carded in so that Emily
knows where to go. Beneath Greet is the player's full name, Nicole Kidman, and beneath her
name is the player's club tier, in this case the highest tier, Platinum Elite. Under the tier is the
player's favorite drink, a Long Black coffee. And beneath that is a date. This is the date that
Nicole last inserted a card into an associated gaming device at the casino. The date is black if
she had an interaction with an employee that was logged in the system and red if there was no
such interaction. This provides additional information that the employee can use to create an
appropriate greeting for Nicole. Alternatively, this information may be provided in the form of
an elapsed time, stated, e.g., in hour or days, which indicates the time lapsed since the last card
in was detected.
         When a player's birthday is within a defined number of days of the current date, the
Birthday field appears. In this case the birthday is indicated as being 2 days away by displaying
+2 days. One day away is designated +1. If the birthday is one or two days before, there is a -1
or -2 indicator, respectively. This gives the employee the opportunity to mention the birthday as
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        86

being the recent or shortly upcoming. Similarly, if the player has an anniversary or other
meaningful date within the aforementioned defined number of days, the name of that event and
the days until or since that occurrence are similarly displayed.
         As described later, there is also a separate birthday call that is generated to create a
birthday celebration. A birthday call may go out to multiple employees simultaneously,
instructing them to individually or collectively wish Nicole a happy birthday, independent of the
Greeting call. Birthday calls may occur on the first card-in, a period of time after the first card
in, after a first win on a gaming device, after a win of at least a minimum size on a gaming
device, a period of time after a Greeting call is completed or other parameters.
         Similarly, a specific call can be generated for an Anniversary or other special
occurrence. The call name, such as Greet, Birthday, Anniversary, etc., appears in the upper left
portion of the screen as shown in Figs. 138-139 and 140-142.
         Referring again to Fig 138, beneath the birthday information are 4 rectangular fields
342, 344, 346, 348. Field 342 informs Emily of the date of the last interaction that she had with
Nicole. Fields 344 and 346 contain previous notes that were made regarding Nicole with field
344 containing public notes, which are notes made by any employee and that every other
employee using a device, like device 332, may see in the corresponding field on their device.
Field 346, on the other hand, contains Emily's private notes about Nicole, which only she can
normally see. Authorized managers, however, may view the private notes via a separate
reporting interface.
         The present system can produce close personal relationships between an employee and a
customer. The customer may share information with the employee that the employee would like
to remember but would not like to become generally known, e.g., information about the health
of the player. The manner in which these notes are entered will be shortly described.
         Each of fields 344, 346 show the last note entered with filed 344 showing a preference
for a sport team, and field 346 showing the name of Nicole's dog. When either of these fields is
touched, a popup window (not shown) appears, expanding over a larger area of the screen. The
window lists earlier notes made and includes scroll bars that allow viewing of any number of
prior notes. In a similar manner, when field 342 is touched, a popup window appears that
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       87

displays prior interactions between Emily and Nicole. This is a list of dates and times in reverse
chronological order. Field 348 contains the name of the employee having the most logged
interactions with Nicole followed by the number of interactions in parentheses. When field 348
is touched, a window appears with a list of all other employees who have interacted with
Nicole, including the total number of interactions and the date and time of the most recent
interaction with each employee.
        In one embodiment, Emily may make additional notes about Nicole on this screen
simply by activating an edit function for the area in which the new note is to be made. The edit
function can be triggered by double tapping the note area, by touching an edit button for the
field (not shown) or other method. When the edit function is activated, a keyboard or other entry
method appears on the screen. Alternatively, a voice to text function is activated to allow Emily
to dictate the note. Although the keyboard and speech to text functions are not illustrated, they
are well known in the art. For example Apple Inc. provides such functionality in its iOS
operating system for mobile platforms and Google Inc. provides comparable data entry
functionality on its Android platform. Any method of data entry may be used, in accordance
with the particular mobile platform used.
        In another embodiment, the ability to make notes is suspended until the call is completed
and Emily can then make notes about information gained from her interaction with Nicole.
        As can be seen in Fig. 138 a Yes button appears at the bottom of the image, and a
countdown counter appears the right of the button. In the present embodiment, the countdown
counter begins counting down from 30 seconds when the call is presented to Emily along with
an alert, as described above, to notify Emily of the call. Each of the counters herein is
configurable and may be set to any time. If Emily is able to and decides to accept the call, she
presses the Yes button at which point screen image 350 in Fig. 139 appears. Unlike other
embodiments, there is no opportunity for Emily to decline a call. If she cannot take the call, she
simply does not touch the Yes button, and the call is automatically offered to another employee
after the 30-second countdown is complete. There is not the same urgency to greet a player as
there is to fix a machine problem that may prevent the player from playing. Even if the call is
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                     88

offered to several employees in succession who do not press the Yes button, when one
employee does, it is likely to be very early in the player's gaming session.
        In another embodiment, an additional touch button is provided so Emily may
immediately decline the call.
        Assuming Emily has pressed the Yes button in Fig. 138, she is presented with image 350
in Fig. 139. The system logs the time it took Emily from the call alert to pressing the Yes
button. In addition, pressing the Yes button starts a count-up counter, displayed in the lower
right corner, which tracks the time Emily spends on the call. When Emily arrives at machine
#231, which is where Nicole has carded in, Emily hits the Arrive button in Fig. 139. The arrival
time or count is logged, and the count-up counter continues counting up while Emily greets
Nicole, perhaps asking her if she can bring a Long Black coffee, her favorite drink, or even
picking it up on the way to machine #231 and offering it, or a substitute, to Nicole when Emily
arrives. Emily can then greet and interact with Nicole using information in Nicole's record such
as birthday, likes, personal information, last time in the casino, etc.
        In one embodiment, shown in Fig. 140, a game for play by Nicole is presented on device
330, which Emily can offers to Nicole to swipe the wheel to spin it. Although the game at 330 is
a simple wheel spin, other games, including slot machines, card games, guessing games, board
games, dice games are contemplated. Any game with at least two possible outcomes is
potentially suitable. The game may be played free of charge or require compensation, such as
loyalty points, cash, a qualifying coupon or other credential. Varying amounts of player points,
free-play credit, money prizes, etc., may be awarded to Nicole. In the case of free-play credits
and points, these can be delivered automatically to Nicole's player-tracking account or the
credits may be applied directly to the credit meter of machine #231 where Nicole is playing.
These credits typically may only be played and not cashed out. The amount of each prize on the
wheel and the likelihood of winning each prize may be based on Nicole's value or potential
value to the casino. In other words, the system may present prizes of varying values and varying
odds of winning to different players.
        After the game is played and Emily concludes her interaction with Nicole, she hits the
Finish button in Fig. 141. This logs the time when the Finish button is hit. Hitting the Finish
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      89

button presents screen image 352 in Fig. 142, which includes a Rate button at the bottom. As
can be seen immediately beneath Nicole's picture is a first touch-screen slider 354, including a
circular button that Emily can touch and drag to a position on the sliding scale to rate the
player's personality between shy and bold. Similarly, there is a second touch-screen slider 356
to the right of Nicole's picture that can be used to rate the current mode of the player between
elated and angry. The rectangular box on each slider is an average of all past ratings by all
employees.
         In one embodiment, Emily may only make notes about her interaction with Nicole after
the Rate screen in Fig. 142 appears. The advantage is that Emily must initially focus on
interacting with Nicole without worrying about making notes. Another advantage is that the best
time to make notes is immediately after the interaction with Nicole concludes.
         Once each slider button is positioned according to Emily's rating on each scale, and any
desired notes are made, Emily presses the Rate button. The entered ratings and notes will then
be displayed the next time a call to Nicole is assigned to an employee. In some embodiments the
words, shy-bold and elated-angry, disappear when the Arrive button is pressed so that the player
won't glimpse the screen and realize the employee is evaluating them. As can be seen in Fig.
 142, fields 342, 344, 346, and 348 are blank when the Rate button appears. When the employee
touches any of the fields in this mode, a touch-screen keyboard appears to enable entry of data.
Field 342 receives notes related to the ratings made using sliders 354, 356. Field 344 is used to
add a private note, which later appears as described above. Field 346 receives a public note, also
later displayed as described above. Finally, field 348 is used to change the player's favorite
drink.
         When the Rate button is touched, the ratings and notes are logged, the call is complete,
and Emily is presented with a statistics summary screen shown in Fig. 143. At the top are
Emily's statistics for the call to greet Nicole. She accepted the call in 3.6 seconds and arrived in
22 seconds. So far on Emily's shift, she has not accepted, i.e., let the 30-second countdown
counter run out, a total of 3 calls, which are shown as deferred at the top. The box includes
average times for other employees on this shift for the Accept and Arrive times as well as the
number of calls each has deferred. This allows each employee to determine how he or she is
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      90

performing relative to other employees during the current shift. In some embodiments, other
ratings information may be presented on this screen.
         In Figs. 144A and 144B, a flow chart, indicated generally at 358, depicts the sequence of
operation of the greeting call described in connection with Figs. 138-143. The process starts at
360 and waits at 362. When any one of the players cards in for the first time on the current day,
at 364, a greet call is offered to a first employee at 366, which starts the countdown timer from
30 seconds, at 368, as shown and described in connection with Fig. 138. At 370, if the player
hits the Yes button in Fig. 138, the process stops the countdown timer and starts an arrival
count-up timer at 372 and logs the time or count between assignment of the call and acceptance
by the employee. But if the player does not hit the yes button within the 30-second countdown,
the greeting call is offered to another employee at 374, and a countdown timer for that employee
is started at 368.
         After the call is accepted by touching the Yes button, the employee arrives and touches
the Arrive button, shown in Fig. 139, at 376. This logs the arrival time, i.e., the time between
acceptance (touching the Yes button) and arrival (touching the Arrive button). The arrival count
up timer is stopped and a new visit duration count up counter is begun at 377. Although not
shown on the flow chart, the optional game, shown in Fig. 140 may be played after the Arrive
button is touched. At 378, when the greeting-and game, if played-is complete, the employee
touches the Finish button, shown in Fig. 141. This logs the current time or count since the
arrival. The visit duration count-up clock stops at 380, and ratings and notes are received, as
described above, at 382. Statistics are then displayed for a predefined length of time, e.g., 4
seconds, at 384 and as shown in Fig. 143. The number of times the employee has interacted
with this player, shown in parentheses to the right of Greet in Fig. 138, is advanced at 386. The
process then returns to 362 to wait for the next player to generate his or her first card-in of the
day.
         The time counters permit tracking for each employee of statistics on how efficiently the
employee acts to accept each call, how long it takes to arrive (which can help to determine
employee positioning on the floor), and how long the employee actually visits with the player.
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       91

Each of these counters is useful in measuring employee effectiveness as well as staffing
efficiency and time spent with each customer.
         Other calls beyond the greet call described above are also generated by the system and
offered to an employee. For example, on the day of a player's birthday or anniversary, the greet
call may be replaced by or supplemented with a birthday or anniversary call. When a player
cards in on the day of his or her birthday, or within a defined range of days of the birthday date,
a call is generated in the same manner as described above. This call can go to a single employee
or multiple employees. The conduct of the call is determined by management policy. It could be
that each employee is separately dispatched to wish the player happy birthday or that only a
subset of employees is dispatched separately to do so. It could also be that a group of employees
are dispatched simultaneously and sing happy birthday and offer a cake or a present. The exact
nature of such dispatches is in accordance with a combination of management policy, the
player's perceived or historical worth, player personality and current business levels of the
casino as well as the number of employees who are available to conduct the call. Of course the
same procedures may be followed on the player's anniversary or other important days, thought
he exact configuration of these calls may be use a superset or a subset of the criteria used for the
birthday call.
         Anniversary dates are typically provided by the player in connection with enrollment in
or updating the player's record in the player-tracking club.
         Additional calls can be made as described above even for a player who is not carded in.
For example, drink request, service request, paper empty, hopper fill, and hand-pay jackpot, all
of which are described above with another embodiment. Of course, if one of these calls comes
in for a player who is not carded in, there is no player name or personal information for the
player. But the employee responding can still greet and interact with the player in connection
with fulfilling the call, e.g., replacing paper in the ticket printer. And if the player is carded in
for one of these calls, the player's name and information is provided as described in connection
with the call depicted in Fig. 138, and the call proceeds in a similar fashion. In other words, a
greeting and positive interaction can be made in connection with responding to a call that
requires attention to the gaming device such as adding paper or filling the hopper.
                                                                    Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                        92

         In another embodiment, the employee greeting-at least the initial interaction-may be
scripted by displaying a greeting on the screen of the mobile computing device. Different
greetings could be served up according to rules stored in the system. For example, the first thing
an employee says when making a first contact with an identified player might be: "Hi, my name
is Emily. Welcome to Acme Casino. Is there anything I can help you with?"
         This confirms to the employee that he or she has not logged an interaction with this
player before and provides an indication of how to proceed. For a greeting call to a player who
has a prior logged interaction, the employee script might be: "Hi Ms.                    . I'm
              . We met a few months/weeks/days ago. How can I help you?" The particular
wording of follow up greetings can change over time and will also vary depending upon the
time since the last interaction.
         For players who are offered a game on the employee's mobile device, as shown in Fig.
 140, the script might read: "Hi Mr.           . I am            (when it is a first interaction with the
employee). Would you like to play a bonus game with a chance to win                            (list one or
more prizes such as points and free play)?"
         Different scripts are used for different kind of calls. For example, a drink call might be:
"Hi Ms.            . I know your usual drink is                (from mobile device screen). Can I
bring you one or would you like something else?"
         To sum up, each type of call may have its own script. And those can vary depending on
whether it is the first interaction or a subsequent one and with the time since the last interaction,
or in accordance to the perceived or historical worth of the customer. Also, the scripts may vary
from interaction to interaction so that the employee does not sound as if she is simply repeating
the same statement over and over.
         These scripts might be rule based. In other words, if first greeting use script A. If first
interaction on a paper fill, use script B. If second greeting on first card in, use script C, etc. In
another embodiment, interactions are evaluated, and different scripts or employees to interact
with a player are chosen based on the evaluation.
         In another embodiment, call assignments may be routed to the employee who has most
often interacted with the customer on previous visits. For example, If both Tom and Emily are
                                                                   Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       93

employees who are working when Nicole arrives, Emily may be selected for the call because
she has met Nicole 5 previous times while Tom has met her only once before. In another
embodiment, the call is assigned to the employee who gave high ratings to previous interactions
with that guest. For example, if Tom had met Nicole only once before but rated the encounter as
leaving Nicole very happy, Tom might be assigned the call because Nicole, although having had
5 previous encounters, always rated Nicole as angry.
        In another embodiment, the call is assigned to the employee most highly rated on player
surveys, or the employee who is most experienced serving players of category of historical or
perceived worth, or by matching the age, regional birthplaces, mutual interests, gender and other
matching or complementary characteristics of employees and customers.
        Another type of call is the Introduction call, which, in times when the casino isn't so
busy that all employees are already engaged with customers, an employee who has encountered
the customer previously is dispatched along with an employee that has not previously met the
customer. The employee who has previously met the customer then introduces the employee
who has not met the customer, providing a basis of familiarity for future call assignments.
        Another type of call is the Checkup call in which, after a period of time has elapsed
since the last call to a given customer, a new call is created in which the employee simply
checks in to see if the customer needs anything.
        Similarly, an employee could be dispatched after a period of time to deliver a drink. The
periods of time between call assignments to a given customer can depend on a combination of
one or more parameters such as customer personality, expressed customer desires, customer
historical or perceived worth, availability of employees for call assignment and other relevant
parameters.
        Criteria used to determine when calls are assigned and to which employees may be
based upon information gathered from observation by employees or management. Additional
information criteria may be drawn from player surveys, player interviews, personality profiles,
information drawn from social media, information obtained from outside sources such as credit
card companies, car purchases and other consumer activities, as well as instant or longer-term
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      94

winning or losing events, frequency of player visit, distance traveled by the player, and other
sources.
        In the case of scheduled drink delivery, the schedule may be based upon player request,
observations by employees, historical consumption and inside temperature and humidity. If the
drink contains alcohol, service schedules may be determined by number of drinks previously
served in the past few hours, customer weight, build, gender and other physical and
psychological characteristics, as well as historical or perceived worth, cost of the beverage and
local laws or customs.
        One of skill in the art will appreciate there are a wide range of criteria from which to
base call creation and assignment as well as selection of the employee to whom the call is
assigned. Calls may be created and assigned in accordance to management rules which are
encoded into the system software or thy may be created and assigned by allowing a machine
learning system to evaluate criteria regarding the customer, the employee, current business
levels and resulting customer behaviors. The machine learning system could be provided by
IBM's Watson system or by similar systems from Facebook, Amazon, Google and other
companies.
        One way to evaluate a player is to track how much he or she spends after an interaction.
Virtually every casino has a player-tracking system such as the IGT Advantage* made by IGT.
This tracks play by the player. Each electronic gaming device includes a coin-in meter and a
coin-out meter. Coin-in is the amount applied to as a wager on the gaming device, and coin-out
is the amount paid by the gaming device as a result of an award in response to a game played.
        The present embodiment interfaces with the player-tracking system to capture this meter
information. The meter information is typically captured when a player cards in and cards out,
among other times. Therefore, subtracting the coin-in and coin-out meter values at card in and
card out provides data from which the total player spend for that session may be calculated. The
spend can be actual or theoretical. The actual spend is the difference between the amount
wagered and the amount won by the player. The theoretical spend is the hold percentage on the
gaming device times the amount wagered. The theoretical spend is the amount the casino would
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      95

be expected to receive from the player if/when the gaming device performs as it was designed
over time.
        Because the employee interactions are logged with time stamps as described above, and
because the meter data is also logged with time stamps, data can be drawn from the databases
holding this information to associate a spend amount, either actual or theoretical, with the
employee who had the interaction. As a result, a database record may be created for each
interaction that includes some or all of the following fields:
Employee / Player / Date and Time / Machine # / Spend / Mood Rating / Personality Rating
         This data can be used in a variety of ways. For example, prior to assigning a call,
whether it is a simple greeting or to perform a task, e.g., hopper fill, the database can be
consulted to consider which employees have had positive past interactions with this player. This
could be based on spend, ratings, or a combination. This information could also be used to
determine whether to offer a bonus game, like that in Fig. 140, to a player. A player who has
been on several different slot machines, and lost at each, would be more likely to receive an
offer to play the bonus game than one who is consistently winning.
         The data may also be used to select different scripts. In other words, rather than
implementing a strict rule-based methodology for selecting a strict, a more adaptive approach is
used by making decisions based on the historical data.
         The system can be used in other ways to optimize a player's gaming experience. For
example, the card-in and card-out times over a long period, e.g., a year, may be searched and
analyzed to determine which players are at the casino at the same time. This could result in an
offer to one or more of the players who jointly visit. For example, an employee responding to a
call will have the player's personal information on their mobile device, and will also have the
name of another person, in a field not shown in the drawings, that is identified as a joint visitor
with the player. This enables the employee to inquire about the other person and possibly get an
introduction to greet the other player. This creates a new player relationship with the employee.
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                     96

          In addition, this information can be used to track total visits, e.g., over a year. A player
who visits every couple of weeks regularly and spends modest amounts might be of more value
to the casino than a player who comes only twice a year but spends much higher amounts.
Recognition of such regular players may be achieved through displaying that information on an
 employee's mobile device, which gives the employee the opportunity to comment on their
 frequency of visiting and thank the player, perhaps using a script as described above.
          Consideration will now be given to another feature that may be implemented on the
 system. Turning attention to Fig. 145, a cash out ticket 388 is shown while being printed by a
ticket printer associated with a gaming device (not visible in Fig. 145). This is part of a ticket
 in/ticket-out (TITO) system that facilitates transfers of credits from one one to another. An
 optical code, as shown on ticket 388, encodes the amount of money associated with the ticket.
When the player hits the cash out button on the slot machine, a ticket encoded with the number
 of remaining credits on the credit meter is printed. They player may use the ticket on a ticket
reader with another slot machine to put credits on that machine or may cash out at a kiosk
having a ticket reader that receives the ticket and returns cash. Or the player may cash out via a
 cashier at the casino.
          When each ticket is generated, i.e., printed, an entry in a database records time
generated, machine number where generated, value, and unique validation number. When a
ticket is inserted into a ticket reader, whether to cash out or to apply credits to gaming machine,
the ticket in the database is canceled.
          The present system can track an uncarded player using tickets. A session starts with the
 first cash out of a ticket, typically after play on a first slot machine. When that ticket is inserted
 into another slot machine, the system uses the unique number associated with it, and enters it in
 a database. As a result, the player may be tracked from machine to machine until the last cash
 out, which ends the session.
          In this manner, the same kinds of analysis, in terms of spend by the player, can be
performed as described above for an untracked player. As a result, calls to fill paper, pay
jackpots, take a drink order, etc. may be optimized in the same manner as if the player was
 identified in a player-tracking system and using a card.
                                                                     Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                         97

         Whilst one or more preferred embodiments of the present invention have been herein
before described, the scope of the present invention is not limited to those specific
embodiment(s), and may be embodied in other ways, as will be apparent to a person skilled in
the art.
         Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art are
deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                                                Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                    98

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
         1.      A method for dispatching a casino agent to an identified player of an electronic
gaming device on a network of electronic gaming devices in a casino, the method comprising:
        enrolling players in a player-tracking club;
        associating each player with a physical object that is used by the player to associate him
or herself with an identified gaming device selected by the player for tracking the player's play
on the gaming device;
        creating a list of casino agents;
        providing at least some of the casino agents with a mobile computing device that is in
communication with a wireless network operatively connected to the network of electronic
gaming devices;
        storing the list in a memory connected to the network;
        receiving the physical object at a gaming device selected by one of the players;
        detecting a communication on the network indicating receipt of the physical object at an
identified electronic gaming device;
        establishing a new gaming session for the player in response to the communication;
        determining when the last gaming session for the one player was established;
        if the time between the two gaming sessions is greater than a predefined duration,
generating a call to dispatch one of the casino agents to the gaming device selected by the one
player;
        automatically sending a call signal via the wireless network to the mobile computing
device carried by the one casino agent, the signal including data indicating the identified
electronic gaming device selected by the one player;
        receiving a call-acceptance signal responsive to an input on the mobile computing
device carried by the casino agent indicating that he or she has accepted the call;
        receiving a call-arrival signal responsive to an input on the mobile computing device
carried by the casino agent indicating that he or she has arrived at the identified gaming device;
        providing information from the player-tracking record for the one player on the mobile
computing device;
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      99

         logging each call that the casino agent has completed in which the one player was
associated with the gaming device to which the casino agent was dispatched;
         displaying information about the prior calls on the mobile computing device; and
         receiving a call-completion signal responsive to an input on the mobile computing
device carried by the casino agent indicating that he or she has interacted with the one player
and finished the call.
         2.      The method of claim 1 further comprising receiving a description of the call from
the one casino agent via the mobile computing device and storing the description in a memory
operatively connected to the network of gaming devices.
         3.      The method of claim 2 further comprising retrieving at least one description of a
prior call for the one player and displaying it on the mobile computing device during a later call.
         4.      The method of claim 3 further comprising displaying the same description on a
plurality of mobile computing devices each of which is carried by a different casino agent.
         5.      The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a call acceptance time
comprising the time between the call signal and the call-acceptance signal, storing each call
acceptance time for the one casino agent, and calculating an average call acceptance time using
at least some of the stored call acceptance times.
         6.      A method for dispatching a casino agent on a call to an electronic gaming device
on a network and to log information regarding the call, the method comprising:
         storing a list in of casino agents in a memory connected to the network;
         storing records for each of a plurality of players in a memory connected to the network,
each record including information about one of the players;
         monitoring the network of electronic gaming devices via a network computing device;
                                                                  Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                       100

        detecting at the network computing device a communication on the network indicating
that a player has actuated a circuit at one of the electronic gaming devices that associates the
player's record with the one electronic gaming device;
        generating a call to dispatch one of the casino agents to the one electronic gaming
device;
        transmitting a call signal to a mobile computing device carried by one of the casino
agents via a wireless network that is operatively connected to the network computing device;
        receiving an arrival signal at the network computing device in response to action taken
by the one casino agent via the mobile computing device indicating that the one casino agent
has arrived at the identified electronic gaming device;
        tracking the time between receipt of the arrival signal and receive of a finish signal in
response to action taken by the one casino agent via the mobile computing device indicating that
the one casino agent has finished the call;
        tracking the number of times the casino agent is dispatched on a call to the player;
        storing the number of times in the memory operatively connected to the network
computing device; and
        displaying the number of times on the casino agent's mobile computing device.
        7.      The method of claim 6 further comprising automatically sending a signal via the
wireless network to the mobile computing device carried by the casino agent, the signal
including data that identifies the one electronic gaming device.
        8.      The method of claim 6 wherein receiving a signal at the network computing
device in response to action taken by the one casino agent indicating that the one casino agent
has arrived at the identified electronic gaming device is in response to a signal generated on the
wireless network as a result of an input received at a user interface of the mobile computing
device.
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      101

         9.      The method of claim 6 further comprising receiving a description of the call from
the one casino agent via the mobile computing device and storing the description in a memory
operatively connected to the network of gaming devices.
         10.     The method of claim 9 further comprising retrieving at least one description of a
prior call to one of the gaming devices having the player's record associated with it and
displaying it on the mobile computing device during a later call.
         11.     The method of claim 10 further comprising displaying the same description of a
prior call on a plurality of mobile computing devices each of which is carried by a different
casino agent.
         12.     The method of claim 6 further comprising determining a call time comprising the
time between the call-arrival signal and the call-finish signal, storing each call time for the one
casino agent, and calculating an average call time using at least some of the stored call times.
         13.     A method for dispatching a casino agent on a call to an electronic gaming device
on a network and to log information regarding the call, the method comprising:
         storing a plurality of player records in a memory operatively connected to the network;
        populating each record with information related to a different one of a plurality of
players;
         storing a unique code in a physical object associated with each player;
         associating one of the electronic gaming devices with a player whose code is detected on
the network at a selected one of the gaming devices at which the physical object is presented by
the player;
        tracking the player's play at the one gaming device and storing information about the
tracked play in the player's record;
        monitoring the network of electronic gaming devices via a network computing device;
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      102

        generating a call to dispatch one of the casino agents to the one gaming device when the
code is detected on the network;
        transmitting a call signal via a wireless network to a mobile computing device carried by
one of the casino agents;
        tracking the time between the call signal and a call acceptance signal that is generated in
response to an action taken by the casino agent at a user interface on the mobile computing
device;
        tracking the time between the call acceptance signal and a call arrival signal that is
generated in response to an action taken by the casino agent at the user interface on the mobile
computing device when the agent arrives at the one gaming device;
        tracking the time between the call arrival signal and a call finish signal that is generated
in response to an action taken by the casino agent at the user interface on the mobile computing
device;
        storing the tracked times in a memory operatively connected to the network computing
device;
        tracking the number of times a call signal has been generated for the one casino agent in
response to detecting the unique code for the player; and
        displaying the number on the mobile computing device.
         14.    The method of claim 13 wherein the call signal includes data that identifies the
one electronic gaming device.
         15.    The method of claim 13 further comprising receiving data at the network
computing device via the wireless network that includes a comment generated on the mobile
computing device related to an interaction with the one player.
         16.    The method of claim 15 further comprising storing the comment in an electronic
log.
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                     103

         17.     The method of claim 13 further comprising receiving a description of the call
from the one casino agent via the mobile computing device and storing the description in a
memory operatively connected to the network of gaming devices.
         18.     The method of claim 17 further comprising retrieving at least one description of
a prior call for the one player and displaying it on the mobile computing device during a later
call.
         19.     The method of claim 18 further comprising displaying the same description on a
plurality of mobile computing devices each of which is carried by a different casino agent.
         20.     The method of claim 13 further comprising determining a call-arrival time
comprising the time between the call-acceptance signal and the call-arrival signal, storing each
call-arrival time for the one casino agent, and calculating an average call time using at least
some of the stored call acceptance times.
                                                                 Attorney's Docket No. 1351-0486
                                                      104

                                       1/144
<removed-date>
                                          <U+2723><U+2724>                      <U+2723><U+2726>
<removed-apn>                               <U+2723><U+2725>
                                                                           <U+2723><U+2729>
                  <U+2727><U+272B>    <U+271D><U+271D><U+271D>                                           <U+2727><U+2605>
                  <U+2727><U+2725>    <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>               <U+2727><U+2726>
                                                       <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>         <U+2727><U+2729>
                                                                          <U+2723><U+2727>
                 <U+272A><U+2725>                                                     <U+272A><U+272B>
              <U+272A><U+2726>                                     <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                  <U+272A><U+2727>                                                   <U+272A><U+272A>
                   <U+272C><U+2726>                     <U+261E>                                <U+2723><U+2723>
                 <U+272C><U+2723>      <U+2714><U+272D><U+2714>
                  <U+272C><U+2727>     <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>                                     <U+272C><U+2729>
                                                <U+272C><U+272B>
                        <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722>                         <U+272C><U+2605>
                                  <U+2729><U+2726>
                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                         2/144
<removed-date>
                                                                   <U+2723><U+2724>                  <U+2723><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2723><U+2725>                        <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D>
                                                   <U+2720>     <U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2720>
                         <U+2723><U+272B>
                   <U+2727><U+2726>
              <U+2727><U+2727>                                                                       <U+2723><U+2729>
                   <U+272A><U+2727>
                                                                             <U+2727><U+272A>
              <U+2723><U+272A>                                <U+2701> <U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E>
                              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D>                                               <U+2723><U+2727>
                                   <U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E>                     <U+272A><U+272A>
                   <U+2723><U+272C>                    <U+270C><U+2720>
                                                                        <U+2723><U+2723>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E>

                                  3/144
<removed-date>                                              <U+2723><U+2726><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2727><U+272A><U+2704>   <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>                   <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>         <U+2727><U+2726><U+2704>
                                           <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>
                                           <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>
                           <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>             <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>
              <U+2727><U+2727><U+2704>          <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>
                     <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>   <U+2701><U+2712> <U+2702>      <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>         <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+2727><U+2704>                                      <U+272A><U+272A><U+2704>
                                                             <U+272A><U+2726>
                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2706>

                                                               4/144
<removed-date>                                                                                           <U+2723><U+2726>
                   <U+2727><U+2727>                    <U+2727><U+2726>               <U+2727><U+2723>
<removed-apn>              <U+272A> <U+271B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+271B><U+271C><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2732><U+261B><U+2733><U+271F>             <U+2712><U+2729><U+2605><U+272A><U+271B><U+270F><U+2726> <U+271B><U+272B> <U+2725> <U+2711><U+270F><U+2725><U+2729><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2729><U+270F><U+272D><U+272B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726> <U+2719><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2730><U+2731><U+2722><U+2729>      <U+271B><U+272B><U+2730><U+2726>
                                          <U+2701><U+2732><U+261B><U+2733><U+271F>                                    <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>
                         <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>                                       <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>
                                               <U+2701><U+2712><U+2702>              <U+2701><U+2732><U+261B><U+2733><U+271F>                                   <U+2701><U+2712> <U+2702>
                        <U+270E><U+2718><U+270F><U+2711>        <U+2727><U+272C>             <U+2727><U+272A>          <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>
                                                                              <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2719>     <U+2718><U+2719><U+2727> <U+2723><U+2726>         <U+2712><U+261E><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                                <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+272A><U+2727>        <U+2720><U+2711><U+2702><U+2712><U+270D><U+2704><U+2713><U+260E><U+2701>         <U+2720><U+2711><U+2702><U+270D><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+260E><U+270E><U+271D>             <U+2720><U+2711><U+2702><U+270D><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+260E><U+270E><U+271E>      <U+2720><U+2711><U+2702><U+270D><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F>          <U+2720><U+2711><U+2702><U+270D><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+260E><U+270E><U+270C>
                                    <U+2727><U+2724>
                        <U+2701><U+2720><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>               <U+2701><U+2720><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2702><U+271D>            <U+2701><U+2720><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2702><U+271E>          <U+2701><U+2720><U+2721>            <U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+260E><U+2712><U+2706>
                         <U+2702><U+270D><U+2704><U+260E>                 <U+2702><U+270D><U+2704><U+260E>                <U+2702><U+270D><U+2704><U+260E>            <U+261B><U+261E><U+271D>              <U+260E><U+2706>  <U+2701>
                        <U+272A><U+2727>                                                                             <U+272A><U+272A>
                                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                                                                                                                                                   5/144
<removed-date>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2723><U+2726><U+2715>
                                            <U+2727><U+2726><U+2715>                                                                                              <U+2727><U+2723><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>
                    <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C>     <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C>
                      <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C>     <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+270C>
                        <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C>                                                 <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C>
                    <U+2704>                                                                       <U+2704>                                                                           <U+272A>                                                          <U+2605>                                                                          <U+2724>
              <U+2727><U+272A><U+2715>
                                                                      <U+270D>                                                                          <U+270D>                                                           <U+270E>                                                                           <U+270F>                                                                      <U+2711>
              <U+2727><U+2724><U+2715>                 <U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>     <U+271B>                                                                  <U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>     <U+271B>                                                                  <U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>     <U+271B>                                                <U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>     <U+271B>                                                                  <U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>     <U+271B>
              <U+272A><U+2727><U+2715>                   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2711><U+2721>                                                                        <U+271F><U+2720><U+2711><U+2721>                                                                        <U+271F><U+2720><U+2711><U+2721>                                                      <U+271F><U+2720><U+2711><U+2721>                                                                        <U+271F><U+2720><U+2711><U+2721>
                                     <U+2701><U+2720><U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+2704><U+271E>
                                    <U+272A><U+2727><U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+272A><U+272A><U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                                                          6/144
<removed-date>
                   <U+272B><U+2727>       <U+272B><U+272A>             <U+272B><U+2726>                        <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>              <U+272B><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
                                        <U+270E><U+270F>           <U+270E><U+270F>              <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+271E>    <U+270D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2720><U+2702><U+271F><U+271F>
                     <U+270E><U+270F> <U+2701><U+2725><U+2706><U+271D><U+2702>
                                       <U+2702>            <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2729><U+2726>
                                                                     <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>
                                       <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>          <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>
               <U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2723><U+271E><U+271D><U+2724>
                                                                       <U+2720><U+2706><U+271D><U+270C><U+2704><U+2706><U+271F><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704>         <U+2605><U+2726>
                                       <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>          <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>
               <U+2605><U+2723>                                                                               <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713><U+2719>
                                                           <U+271F><U+2702><U+2605><U+2706>                  <U+2702>   <U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2605><U+2727>           <U+2726><U+2727><U+2716><U+2712><U+2713><U+2727><U+2712><U+2716>                      <U+2729><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2605><U+271E><U+271F>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                        <U+2720><U+2706><U+271D><U+272A><U+2702><U+2704><U+270C><U+2702><U+2704>          <U+2605><U+272A>
                                                                     <U+2605><U+272C>          <U+272B><U+2729>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                           <U+2720><U+2706><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+2702><U+2704>                      <U+2729><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2605><U+271E><U+271F>
                                                          <U+2702><U+271F><U+2702><U+2605>
                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                        <U+2720><U+2706><U+271D><U+272A><U+2702><U+2704><U+270C><U+2702><U+2704>          <U+2605><U+2729>
                             <U+272B><U+272C>
                                                                                                <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2712><U+2713>
                                  <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>           <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>
                                  <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>           <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                                                           <U+2724><U+2726>
                                  <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>           <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+2725><U+2726>
                                                                          <U+271A><U+271B><U+2716><U+271B><U+271C><U+271B><U+2722><U+2712>
                                      <U+272B><U+2723>
                                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                                                                                          7/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                               <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2719>
                                                  <U+2715>
                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2718>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2719>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+261B>
              <U+2713>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                               <U+271F>
                          <U+2718>
                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                   <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2718>
                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2716>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                              <U+2704>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                      <U+2718>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2722>
                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271B>
                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2704>                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                  <U+2716>
                                                                      <U+270C>                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                            <U+260E>
                                  <U+2716>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+2704>                                                                            <U+2704>
                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+261E>                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2725>
                                                          <U+2706>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             <U+2701>
                                         8/144
                 <U+2702>   <U+2704>           <U+260E>   <U+2706>
                         <U+271D>

                                                                              9/144
<removed-date>
                      <U+2712>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>
                              <U+276D>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+270E>
                              <U+2769>
                                          <U+261E>
                      <U+270D>                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                              <U+2771>
                      <U+270C>
                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2772>
                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                      <U+261E>
                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2769>
                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2771>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2724>
                                              <U+2722>
                      <U+2721>
                          <U+2715>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                   <U+2772>
                                                                                                               <U+276D>
                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                   <U+2772>           <U+2772>
                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                   <U+2771>           <U+2771>
                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+276F>
                                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
              <U+271F>
                                                                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
              <U+271E>
                                                                               <U+2741>
                                                                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
              <U+271D>
                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                               <U+273F>
                                                                                                                       <U+2745>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                               <U+273E>
                                                                                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                           <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                   <U+273D>
                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                                                      <U+2730>                                                            <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                   <U+273E>
                                                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>
                                                              <U+2735>
                                                      <U+272F>
                          <U+2714>
                                                                               <U+273B>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2772>
                                                              <U+2733>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                           <U+2743>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                   <U+272E>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                      <U+272D>                                                                                <U+272B>
                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2771>   <U+2718>
                                                                                                           <U+272E>
                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2717>
                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+272F>
                  <U+2704>                                                                                        <U+272D>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                              <U+2733>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                           <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                   <U+274A>
                                                              <U+2732>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                           <U+272D>
                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+2737>                                <U+273E>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                  <U+2726>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2773>                        <U+2768>                                   <U+276C>
                                                                  <U+2772>                            <U+2772>                               <U+2769>
                                  <U+2768>
                                                                  <U+2771>                            <U+2771>                               <U+2771>
                                      <U+2771>
                                      <U+2771>
                      <U+2712>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>
                              <U+276A>
                                          <U+270D>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                              <U+2772>
                                              <U+25CF>
                      <U+270D>
                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                      <U+270C>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                               
                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2769>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2771>
                      <U+261B>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+274D>
                      <U+2721>
                                              <U+2722>
                          <U+2715>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                   <U+2772>
                                                                                                               <U+276D>
                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                   <U+2772>           <U+2772>
                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                   <U+2771>           <U+2771>
                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+275A>
                                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
              <U+271F>
                                                                               <U+2742>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
              <U+271E>
                                                                               <U+2741>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
              <U+271D>
                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                               <U+273F>
                                                                                                                       <U+2745>
              <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2726>                                <U+272B>                                                                           <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                               <U+273E>
                                                                                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                           <U+2731>
                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                   <U+273D>
                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                                              <U+2732>
                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                                                                                                                   <U+2741>
                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                   <U+273E>
                                                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                              <U+2734>
                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>
                                                              <U+2735>
                          <U+2714>                           <U+272F>
                                                                               <U+273B>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2772>
                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                              <U+2733>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                           <U+2743>
                                                                                   <U+272E>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2771>
                                                                                                           <U+272E>
                                                                                   <U+272A>                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+272F>
                  <U+2704>                                                                                        <U+272D>
                                                              <U+2733>
                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                           <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                   <U+274A>
                                                              <U+2732>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                           <U+272D>
                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2751>   <U+272A>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+2737>                                <U+273E>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                  <U+274F>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2773>                        <U+2768>                                       <U+276C>
                                                          <U+2772>                            <U+2772>                                   <U+2769>
                                                          <U+2771>                            <U+2771>                                   <U+2771>

                                                                      10/144
<removed-date>
                      <U+2712>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+270E>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+270C>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                      <U+2721>
                          <U+2715>
                      <U+2720>
                                              <U+274D>
                                          <U+261E>
                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
              <U+271F>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
              <U+271E>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
              <U+271D>
                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                          |
              <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                              
                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                          P
                                              <U+274A>
                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                              <U+2749>
                          <U+2714>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                  <U+2702>
                                              <U+2748>
                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                      <U+2712>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                      <U+276C>
                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                      <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                      <U+2768>
                                                  <U+2727>
                      <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                  <U+2771>
                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+2723>
                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                              <U+2715>
                                                  <U+2722>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+2772>       <U+2769>
                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                      <U+2772>   <U+2772>
                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                      <U+2771>   <U+2771>
                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
              <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
              <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+272E>
                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
              <U+271D>
                              <U+2713>
                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                              <U+2745>
              <U+2706>
                                                                              <U+272B>                                                           <U+25D7>
                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                          <U+272F>
                              <U+2714>
                                                                              <U+2741>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                              <U+2736>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                              <U+272C>                                               <U+2717>
                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                      <U+272F>
                  <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                  <U+2739>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                  <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                      <U+272A>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                              <U+2733>
                                                      <U+2730>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>

                                                      11/144
<removed-date>
                                          <U+2756>
                                          <U+2751>
                                      
                      <U+2712>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>
                                                                       <U+273F>
<removed-apn>
                                                                   <U+25BC>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                       <U+273E>
                                                                   <U+25B2>
                      <U+270D>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                      <U+270C>
                                                               
                                                                       <U+273C>
                              <U+2735>
                      <U+261E>
                              <U+2730>
                      <U+261B>
                              <U+2734>
                      <U+2721>
                              <U+261E>
                      <U+2720>
                              <U+2733>
                              <U+270C>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                       <U+25CF>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                                                   <U+2719>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                       <U+25CF>
                                                                           <U+273A>
                              <U+2732>
                                                                                   <U+2719>
              <U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2739>
                                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                   <U+2718>
              <U+271D>
                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                       <U+273E>
                              <U+2731>
                                                                   <U+25C6>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                       <U+274A>
                                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                           <U+2736>
                                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                   <U+2751>
                                                                       <U+2742>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                               
                                                                       <U+2746>
                              <U+261B>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                       <U+2748>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                       <U+2744>
                              <U+2730>
                                                                       <U+2743>
                              <U+272F>
                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                                       <U+2742>
                              <U+261E>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                       <U+2741>
                                                                                   <U+2716>
                              <U+272E>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                   <U+2714>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                       <U+2740>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                   <U+2713>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                      <U+2712>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>
                      <U+270E>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+270C>
                          <U+2727>
                      <U+261E>   <U+272C>
                      <U+261B>
                          <U+272B>
                      <U+2721>
                          <U+272A>
                      <U+2720>
                          <U+272A>
                          <U+2729>
                                                                                       <U+274D>
                          <U+2605>
                                                                                   <U+2719>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                       <U+25CF>
                                                                                   <U+2719>
              <U+271E>
                                  <U+271B>                                            <U+271B>
                                                                                       <U+274B>
                          <U+2723>
                                  <U+271B>                                            <U+271B>
                                                                                   <U+2718>
              <U+271D>
                          <U+2727>
                                  <U+271A>                                            <U+272D>
              <U+2706>
                          <U+2726>
                                                                                       <U+274A>
                          <U+2725>
                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                  <U+2751>       <U+274F>
                          <U+2724>
                                              <U+274F>           <U+274F>
                                                                                       <U+2748>
                          <U+2723>
                                                         
                                                                                   <U+2717>
                          <U+2722>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                   <U+2716>
                                                                                   <U+2715>
                          <U+2722>
                                                                                   <U+2714>
                  <U+2704>
                          <U+271C>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                   <U+2713>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>

                                                          12/144
<removed-date>
                      <U+2712>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+270E>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+270C>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                      <U+2721>
                          <U+2715>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                       <U+272A>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+2745>
                                                                                       <U+272A>
              <U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2723>
                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                       <U+2729>
              <U+271D>
                          <U+2713>
                                                                           <U+2722>
              <U+2706>
                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                           <U+2743>
                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                           <U+2742>
                                      <U+2721>
                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                           <U+2741>
                                      <U+270D>
                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                       <U+2605>
                                          <U+271A>
                          <U+2714>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                       <U+2725>
                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+2717>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                       <U+2724>
                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+2716>
                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+274A>           <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2749>           <U+274B>
                                              <U+2748>           <U+2748>
                                                      
                                                              <U+274D>    <U+274B>
                                                  <U+2749>           <U+2749>    <U+2749>
                                                  <U+2748>           <U+2748>    <U+2748>
                      <U+2712>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>
                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                               <U+25CF>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                               <U+2749>
                      <U+270D>
                                                                       <U+2736>
                      <U+270C>
                                                                               <U+2748>
                                                                       <U+2735>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                                  <U+271C>
                      <U+2721>
                              <U+270C>
                              <U+261E>
                      <U+2720>
                              <U+272C>
                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                           <U+2747>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                   <U+2734>
                              <U+272E>
                                                                                       <U+272A>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+2745>
                                                                                   <U+2733>
                                                                                       <U+272A>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                   <U+2731>
                                                                                       <U+2729>
              <U+271D>
                              <U+272D>
                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                       <U+2737>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                           <U+2743>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                                   <U+272F>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+2740>
                                                                       <U+273B>
                              <U+261B>                                                            <U+2742>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                       <U+273F>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                       <U+273E>
                                                                                           <U+2741>
                              <U+272C>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                                  <U+2718>
                                                                       <U+273C>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                       <U+2605>
                                                                       <U+273B>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                       <U+2727>
                              <U+272B>
                                                                               <U+274A>
                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                               <U+274D>
                                                                                       <U+2725>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                                               <U+2748>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                       <U+2724>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>

                                                                  13/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                   <U+2792>
                                                                                                   <U+2791>
                                                                                                   <U+2790>
                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                   <U+278F>
                                  <U+2786>
                                                                                                               <U+2788>
                                                                                                   <U+278E>
                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                           <U+2786>
                                                                                                           <U+2785>
                                                                                                   <U+278D>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                       <U+2767>
                                                                                       <U+2660>
                                              <U+2749>
                                              
                                                                                       <U+2765>
                                              <U+274D>
                  <U+2725>
                                                                                       <U+2767>
                  <U+2724>
                                                  <U+2745>
                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                       <U+2766>
                  <U+2723>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                  <U+2745>
                                              
                                                  <U+2746>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                       <U+2765>
                                                  <U+2745>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                       <U+2710>
                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                                       <U+2764>
                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                       <U+2763>
                                                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                              <U+2773>
                                                                                                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                       <U+2762>
                                                                                                                       <U+273E>
                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                  <U+278B>                    <U+2761>
                                                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                       <U+273C>
                                                                  <U+278C>
                                              <U+2747>
                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                       r
                                                                                       r
                                                                                       q
                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                       <U+2763>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                       <U+2663>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                       <U+2741>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+2773>
                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                       <U+2665>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                       <U+2736>
                                              <U+2768>
                                      <U+2786>
                                      <U+2786>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                                           <U+278B>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                           <U+2789>
                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                       <U+272A>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                           <U+2785>
                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                       <U+2605>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                              <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+2722>
                                                                               <U+275E>
                                                                               <U+275D>
                                                                               <U+2775>
                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                          <U+2720>
                                                                               <U+275B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2734>
                                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                               <U+2775>
                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                               <U+2774>
                                                                                               <U+276B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2730>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                               <U+275C>
                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                               <U+275C>
                                              |
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                               <U+276A>
                                                                               <U+275B>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                               <U+2775>
                                                                                               <U+276D>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                       <U+272E>
              <U+2722>
                                              <U+2773>
                                                                               <U+2774>
                                              <U+25B2>
              <U+271C>           <U+2702>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+2759>
                                                  <U+274F>
                          <U+2701>
              <U+271B>
                                              <U+2756>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                              |
                                                  <U+274F>
              <U+271A>
              <U+2719>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+25CF>
                          <U+271D>
                                              <U+274B>
              <U+2718>
                                                                                           <U+277E>
                                              <U+25BC>
              <U+2717>
                                              
                                                                                           <U+277C>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                              |
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                           <U+2776>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                          <U+260E>
                                              <U+2759>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                           <U+277C>
                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                           <U+2467>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                           <U+2466>
                                                                                           <U+2784>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                           <U+2779>
                                                                                           <U+2776>
                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                           <U+2783>
                                              <U+2772>
                                              
                                                                                           <U+2781>
                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                           <U+2468>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2734>
                                              <U+2772>   <U+274F>
                                                                                                                       <U+2734>
                                                                                           <U+2781>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                           <U+2779>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                              |
                                                                                                                       <U+2743>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                           <U+2778>
                                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                                           <U+2781>
                                                                                                                       <U+2742>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                           <U+2782>
                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                                                           <U+2781>
                                                                                           <U+2467>
                                                                                           <U+277D>
                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                           <U+2778>
                                                                                           <U+2466>
                                                                                           <U+2780>
                                              <U+275A>
                                                                           <U+278A>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                                           <U+2789>
                                                                                           <U+2467>
                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                                                           <U+277C>
                                                                           <U+2785>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                              |
                                                                                           <U+277A>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                           <U+277F>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                       <U+2736>
                                              <U+25D7>
                                                  <U+274F>                                        <U+277E>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                           <U+277D>
                                              P
                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                                                           <U+277D>
                                              <U+25C6>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                           <U+2778>
                                                                               <U+275E>
                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                               <U+2775>
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                                  <U+278A>
                                              <U+25B2>
                              <U+261E>                                                            <U+2779>
                                                                               <U+2462>
                                                                                           <U+2779>
                                                                  <U+278C>
                              <U+2712>
                                                                               <U+2461>
                                                                                           <U+277C>
                                              <U+2751>
                                                                               <U+2460>
                                                      <U+2789>
                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                           <U+2778>
                                                                                                                       <U+273B>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                                           <U+2469>
                                                                                   <U+276A>
                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                              <U+270F>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                                                           <U+277B>
                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                           <U+277A>
                                                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                               <U+2707>
                                                                                           <U+2779>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                       <U+2739>
                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                           <U+2778>
                                              
                                                                               t
                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                               <U+2708>
                                          <U+2786>
                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                           <U+2776>
                                                                               <U+2709>
                                          <U+278C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                           <U+2776>
                                                  <U+2745>
                              <U+270D>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                           <U+2469>
                                                                               t
                                          <U+2785>
                                                  <U+2745>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                           <U+2468>
                                                  <U+2746>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                               <U+275B>
                                              <U+274A>
                                                                               <U+2775>
                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                           <U+2467>
                                                                                           <U+2466>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                               <U+275E>
                                                  <U+2745>
                                              <U+2749>
                                                                               <U+2775>
                                                                                           <U+2465>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                           <U+2464>
                                              <U+2749>
                                                                               <U+275D>
                      <U+2716>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                           <U+2463>
                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                                   <U+2787>
                      <U+2715>
                                                              <U+2788>                s
                                              <U+2747>
                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                                                                                   <U+2786>
                                                          <U+278C>
                      <U+2714>
                      <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                   <U+2785>
                                                          <U+2785>

                                                                                                                          14/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                  <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2194>
                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A3>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                  <U+2722>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2742>
                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                          <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                          <U+2776>
                                          <U+2779>
                                          <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                          <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                          <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                          <U+2469>
                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                          <U+2701>
                                          <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                          <U+271F>
                                                      <U+2789>           <U+2789>               <U+2789>               <U+2789>           <U+2789>                                               <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2789>       <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2790>                                                                       <U+2605>
                          <U+271E>
                                                          <U+278B>           <U+278B>               <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2786>       <U+2786>
                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                      <U+2794>           <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278B>
              <U+271A>
                                                                                                      <U+2791>           <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>       <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+277D>       <U+277D>
                                                                  <U+277E>               <U+277E>
                                                      <U+277E>
                          <U+2706>
              <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2788>       <U+2788>
                                                                                                              <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                      <U+277F>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2787>       <U+2787>
                                                                                                      <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278E>
              <U+2715>
                                                                      <U+2792>                                                           <U+2786>       <U+2786>
                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                          <U+2792>
                                                                                                      <U+278D>
              <U+2718>
                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>                           <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2785>
                                                      <U+2788>                           <U+2788>
              <U+2717>
                                                                                                      <U+2793>
                                                                      <U+278B>
                                                                      <U+2790>
                                                          <U+278D>                                                                                                   <U+2782>
                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2784>       <U+2784>
              <U+2716>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277D>
                                                      <U+277C>
                                                      <U+277D>               <U+278C>
                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>
              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2783>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                      <U+278E>
                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2781>
                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                  <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2787>                                                                                   <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                              <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                      <U+274A>
                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                              <U+270E>
                              <U+2721>
                              <U+270F>
                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                              <U+270D>
                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                              <U+2774>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2462>
                                              <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2729>
                                                              <U+2772>               <U+2772>               <U+2772>                       <U+2772>               <U+2772>                   <U+2772>                   <U+2772>       <U+2772>           <U+2772>           <U+2772>       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2462>
                                              <U+275E>               <U+2768>               <U+2768>               <U+2768>                       <U+2768>               <U+2768>                   <U+2768>                   <U+2768>       <U+2768>           <U+2768>           <U+2768>       <U+2768>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                              <U+276C>               <U+276C>               <U+276C>                       <U+276C>               <U+276C>                   <U+276C>                   <U+276C>       <U+276C>           <U+276C>           <U+276C>       <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                              <U+2769>               <U+2769>               <U+2769>                       <U+2769>               <U+2769>                   <U+2769>                   <U+2769>       <U+2769>           <U+2769>           <U+2769>       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                              <U+275C>
                                      <U+274F>
                                                              <U+2768>               <U+2768>               <U+2768>                       <U+2768>               <U+2768>                   <U+2768>                   <U+2768>       <U+2768>           <U+2768>           <U+2768>       <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                      <U+274A>
                              <U+2721>
                                                              <U+2773>               <U+2773>               <U+2773>                       <U+2773>               <U+2773>                   <U+2773>                   <U+2773>       <U+2773>           <U+2773>           <U+2773>       <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                      
                                                              <U+2772>               <U+2772>               <U+2772>                       <U+2772>               <U+2772>                   <U+2772>                   <U+2772>       <U+2772>           <U+2772>           <U+2772>       <U+2772>
                                              <U+275B>
                                                              <U+2772>               <U+2772>               <U+2772>                       <U+2772>               <U+2772>                   <U+2772>                   <U+2772>       <U+2772>           <U+2772>           <U+2772>       <U+2772>
                                      <U+2748>                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                  q
                              <U+2720>
                                      <U+274B>                       <U+2771>               <U+2771>               <U+2771>                       <U+2771>               <U+2771>                   <U+2771>                   <U+2771>       <U+2771>           <U+2771>           <U+2771>       <U+2771>
                                              <U+2775>
                      <U+2714>
                                                  <U+25D7>                       <U+2764>               <U+2710>               <U+2765>               <U+2766>                       <U+2767>                   <U+2660>                               <U+25D7>           <U+25D7>
                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2460>                               <U+2465>
                                                              <U+276F>               <U+276F>               <U+276F>                       <U+276F>               <U+276F>                   <U+276F>                   <U+276F>       <U+276F>           <U+276F>           <U+276F>       <U+276F>
                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                              <U+275A>               <U+275A>               <U+275A>                       <U+275A>               <U+275A>                   <U+275A>                   <U+275A>       <U+275A>           <U+275A>           <U+275A>       <U+275A>
                      <U+2713>
                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>                               <U+2464>
                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                              <U+275A>               <U+275A>               <U+275A>                       <U+275A>               <U+275A>                   <U+275A>                   <U+275A>       <U+275A>           <U+275A>           <U+275A>       <U+275A>
                                                  P                       P               P               P                   P                       P                   P               <U+2708>           P           P
                                                              <U+2759>               <U+2759>               <U+2759>                       <U+2759>               <U+2759>                   <U+2759>                   <U+2759>       <U+2759>           <U+2759>           <U+2759>       <U+2759>
                      <U+2712>
                                              <U+276D>
                      <U+2711>
                                                              |               |               |                       |               |                   |                   |       |           |           |       |
                                                  <U+2756>                       <U+2756>               <U+2756>               <U+2756>                   <U+2756>                       <U+2756>                   <U+2756>       <U+2665>           <U+2756>       <U+2756>           <U+2756>       <U+2463>

                                                                                                                                  15/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AE>
                                  <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AC>
                                  <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B7>
                                  <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B4>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273B>
                  <U+261B>
                  <U+2721>                                                                                                                                           q
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                              q                                                   <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                              q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2776>                       <U+2782>                       <U+2783>                                                           <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>                       <U+277C>                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>                       <U+277C>                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+277D>                       <U+277D>                       <U+277D>
                                                                                                                      <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>                           <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>                       <U+277C>                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>                       <U+277C>                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                              <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                              <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                          <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                              <U+2666>                                                                                                               <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                          <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                              <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                              <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                              q
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2708>                                                   s
                                                                              <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                              <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                              <U+27A1>                                                                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                                                                              <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                          <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                              <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                                              <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2463>
                                              <U+27B9>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2465>                                                       <U+2709>
                                                                                              <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                              <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                          q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                              <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2463>                                                                                                           t
                                                                                              <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                              <U+27A0>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2462>
                                                          <U+279A>
                                              <U+2798>
                                                                                              <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2466>
                                                                              <U+27A0>                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                          <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                              q
                                                                              <U+27A4>                                                                                                       <U+2780>
                                                                                              <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2469>
                                              <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                          <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                              <U+27B9>           <U+279A>                   <U+279E>               <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                                              <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          q
                                                                                                                                                              q
                                                              <U+279D>
                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                              <U+279D>
                                                                              <U+279D>
                                                                                      <U+279D>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                                                                                              <U+2778>                                                                                                               s
                                                                                              <U+279B>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                              <U+2799>
                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                                          <U+2791>
                                                          <U+27BE>
                                              <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                              <U+2793>
                          <U+271D>
                                                          <U+27BD>
                                              <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2468>
                                                                                                          <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>                                                       <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                              <U+279C>
              <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                      <U+27A3>
                          <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2794>                                                                                                           <U+2666>
                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                              <U+2792>                       <U+27B8>
                                                                                                          <U+278C>                                                                               t                       <U+2464>                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                              <U+2793>
              <U+271F>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+279B>
                                                                                                          <U+2790>
                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                  <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2467>                       <U+277E>                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                          <U+2767>
                                                  <U+2194>                           <U+2799>
                                                                                      <U+2799>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+278F>
                                                                                              <U+2799>
                          <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+27B5>
                                                                                      <U+27B5>
                                          <U+2766>
              <U+271E>
                                              <U+27AA>
                                                                                              <U+2195>
              <U+271D>
                                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                          <U+2787>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+27B3>       <U+27B3>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                          <U+278E>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+27B2>       <U+27B2>       <U+2194>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277C>                           <U+277C>                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                          <U+278D>
                                                                              <U+2195>       <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277C>                           <U+277C>                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277D>                           <U+277D>                       <U+277D>
                                                                              <U+27AF>       <U+27AF>       <U+2192>
                                                                                                          <U+278C>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277C>                           <U+277C>                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277C>                           <U+277C>                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+27AD>       <U+27AD>
                                                                                              <U+2793>
                                                                              <U+2794>       <U+2794>
                                                                                                          <U+278B>
                                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                                                                          <U+2788>
                                                                              <U+27AB>       <U+27AB>
                                                                                      <U+27A9>
                                                                                                          <U+278A>
                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                          <U+2789>
                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                                          <U+2788>
                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                                                                          <U+2787>
                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                      <U+2793>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                                                                                          <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                      <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                      <U+2733>
                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                              <U+270E>
                              <U+2721>
                              <U+270F>
                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                              <U+270D>
                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                      
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                                      <U+2756>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                      <U+2746>                   <U+2746>           <U+2746>           <U+2746>                       <U+2746>                       <U+2746>           <U+2746>                       <U+2746>                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                      <U+25C6>               <U+2748>                   <U+2748>           <U+2748>           <U+2748>                       <U+2748>                       <U+2748>           <U+2748>                       <U+2748>                   <U+2748>
                              <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>           <U+2744>
                                                                      <U+274A>                   <U+274A>           <U+274A>           <U+274A>                       <U+274A>                       <U+274A>           <U+274A>                       <U+274A>                   <U+274A>
                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>                                                   <U+2747>           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                      <U+2749>                   <U+2749>           <U+2749>           <U+2749>                       <U+2749>                       <U+2749>           <U+2749>                       <U+2749>                   <U+2749>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2763>           <U+2763>
                                                      <U+25B2>
                                      <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+2748>                   <U+2748>           <U+2748>           <U+2748>                       <U+2748>                       <U+2748>           <U+2748>               <U+276D>       <U+2748>                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>           <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2747>                   <U+2747>           <U+2747>           <U+2747>                       <U+2747>                       <U+2747>           <U+2747>                       <U+2747>                   <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                      <U+2746>                   <U+2746>           <U+2746>           <U+2746>                       <U+2746>                       <U+2746>           <U+2746>                       <U+2746>                   <U+2746>
                                                      <U+2751>                                                                                                                                                               <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>           <U+2748>
                                                                      <U+2746>                   <U+2746>           <U+2746>           <U+2746>                       <U+2746>                       <U+2746>           <U+2746>                       <U+2746>                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>           <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                      <U+2734>                               <U+2745>                   <U+2745>           <U+2745>           <U+2745>                       <U+2745>                       <U+2745>           <U+2745>                       <U+2745>                   <U+2745>
                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                       |
                      <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+2740>               |               <U+2759>           <U+275A>                   <U+276F>           <U+2771>                       <U+2772>
                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2762>           <U+2762>
                                                                      <U+2744>                   <U+2744>           <U+2744>           <U+2744>                       <U+2744>                       <U+2744>           <U+2744>                       <U+2744>                   <U+2744>
                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>                           <U+2746>           <U+2746>
                                                                      <U+2743>                   <U+2743>           <U+2743>           <U+2743>                       <U+2743>                       <U+2743>           <U+2743>                       <U+2743>                   <U+2743>
                      <U+2702>
                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>                                                                               <U+2710>
                                                                      <U+2743>                   <U+2743>           <U+2743>           <U+2743>                       <U+2743>                       <U+2743>           <U+2743>                       <U+2743>                   <U+2743>   <U+275E>                       <U+275E>
                                                                  <U+273F>               <U+273F>               <U+273F>           <U+273F>                       <U+273F>           <U+273F>                       <U+273F>                                           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>           <U+2742>
                                                                      <U+2742>                   <U+2742>           <U+2742>           <U+2742>                       <U+2742>                       <U+2742>           <U+2742>                       <U+2742>                   <U+2742>
                      <U+2701>
                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                      <U+2741>                   <U+2741>           <U+2741>           <U+2741>                       <U+2741>                       <U+2741>           <U+2741>                       <U+2741>                   <U+2741>                       <U+2761>           <U+2761>
                                                                  <U+273E>               <U+273E>               <U+273E>           <U+273E>                       <U+273E>           <U+273E>                       <U+273E>                   <U+2773>                       <U+2775>       <U+275C>                       <U+275C>                       <U+2764>

                                                                                                                          16/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2779>
                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2778>
                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2777>
                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2776>
<removed-apn>
                                          P
                                                      <U+2462>
                  <U+2724>
                                          <U+2756>
                  <U+2723>
                                                      <U+2461>
                  <U+2722>
                                                      <U+2460>
                                          <U+25C6>
                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273E>
                                                      <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                      <U+2469>                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+273B>
                                                      <U+2708>
                                                      t
                                                      <U+2466>
                                                      <U+2465>
                                                      <U+2464>
                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2740>
                                                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273F>
                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2735>
                                                      r
                                                                      <U+2759>               <U+2772>               <U+276F>               <U+2771>                    <U+2768>                       <U+2769>
                                                      q
                                                                      <U+25B2>           <U+25B2>                   <U+25B2>           <U+25B2>                    <U+25B2>                       <U+25B2>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                      <U+2751>           <U+275A>                   <U+275A>           <U+275A>                        <U+2773>                       <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                          <U+271F>
                                                      <U+2468>
                          <U+271D>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                      <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2732>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2467>
                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272E>
                          <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272F>
                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272E>
                                                      <U+2466>
                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                      <U+2465>
                          <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272D>
              <U+271C>
                          <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2463>
              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25CF>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2660>
                                                      <U+2462>
              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+275E>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2747>
              <U+2719>
                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2710>
              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2746>
                                                      <U+2460>
                          <U+271E>
              <U+2717>
                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2766>
              <U+2716>
                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+274A>
                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2761>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2775>
                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2747>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2765>
                                                      <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                                <U+276D>
                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                              <U+2759>                   <U+2772>           <U+276F>                    <U+2771>                       <U+2768>                       <U+2769>                                                   <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274F>
                          <U+260E>
                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2763>
                                                      s
                          <U+2704>
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                              <U+25B2>               <U+25B2>               <U+25B2>                <U+25B2>                       <U+25B2>                       <U+25B2>                                                       <U+25B2>       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2748>
                                                      r
                          <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2747>
                                                                              <U+2751>               <U+275A>               <U+275A>                <U+275A>                           <U+2773>                       <U+2773>                   <U+25BC>               <U+276C>               <U+274D>       <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                              P
                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2774>
                          <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2745>
                                              <U+2756>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+275E>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                  <U+2764>                                                                                                                    <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2743>
                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2735>
                              <U+270F>
                              <U+261B>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2761>
                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2739>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2774>
                              <U+270D>
                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>
                                      <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276B>
                                      <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275C>
                              <U+270C>
                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275D>
                                      <U+275C>
                              <U+261E>
                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275C>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2775>
                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2774>
                              <U+2721>
                                      <U+275B>
                      <U+2715>
                                      <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276B>
                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276D>
                                      <U+2774>
                                                  <U+25D7>                                       |               <U+2759>                <U+276F>                       <U+2771>                       <U+2772>                       <U+2768>           <U+2769>
                                                                          <U+25B2>
                      <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2763>
                                      <U+276B>
                                                  <U+25B2>                      <U+25B2>               <U+25B2>               <U+25B2>                <U+25B2>                   <U+25B2>                       <U+25B2>                       <U+25B2>           <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2761>
                      <U+2713>
                                      <U+276A>                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2762>
                      <U+2712>
                                                  <U+274D>       <U+274D>               <U+2751>               <U+2751>               <U+2751>                <U+275A>                   <U+275A>                       <U+275A>                           <U+2773>           <U+2773>               <U+276C>           <U+25BC>

                                                                                              17/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2778>
                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2777>
                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                               <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2776>
                                  <U+277B>
                                                                                                                               <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+277C>
                                                                                                                               <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2469>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                   <U+2468>
                                                                                                                   <U+2467>
                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                   <U+2466>
                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                   <U+2465>
                                                                          <U+25B2>
                  <U+2718>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                              <U+2745>           <U+2768>
                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                           t
                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                              <U+2744>       <U+2744>                                                                    <U+2775>
                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                          <U+2775>
                                                                      <U+274F>
                                              <U+2744>       <U+2744>
                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                      <U+2767>                                                                                    <U+2709>
                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                               <U+2464>
                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                          |                                    <U+2463>
                                                                      <U+274A>
                                                                                                                           t
                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                               <U+2462>
                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                              <U+2746>
                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                                                       <U+2765>
                                                                      <U+274D>
                                          <U+275B>                                       <U+2774>
                                                                                                               <U+2460>
                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                           t
                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                           <U+2666>
                                                                                                               <U+2461>
                                      <U+2767>
                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2765>
                                                                                                               <U+2461>
                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2665>
                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                               <U+2460>
                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                               <U+2707>
                                      <U+2766>                                                                                <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                  <U+276B>
                                      <U+2765>                                                                                    <U+2774>
                                                                                                               <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                      <U+2710>                                           <U+2666>                                        q
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2768>               <U+2768>                                <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                              <U+2761>
                                                              <U+273F>                                <U+273F>
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                              <U+273E>                                <U+273E>
                                              <U+2744>
                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272A>
                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                          P                                               <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2605>
              <U+2717>
                          <U+260E>
              <U+2716>
                          <U+2704>
                          <U+2701>
              <U+2715>
              <U+2714>
                          <U+2702>
              <U+2713>
                          <U+2701>
              <U+2712>
              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                               <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                           <U+2768>
                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                                   <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2746>
                                                                                                       <U+2744>
                                              <U+273F>                                                <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+275E>
                                              <U+273E>                                                <U+273E>
                                                                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                       <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                       <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                       <U+275C>                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2775>                               <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2774>
                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                       <U+276B>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                          P                                               <U+2772>                                            <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2730>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2747>
                              <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                               <U+25C6>
                              <U+261E>                               <U+274B>
                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                               |
                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                      <U+2745>
                                              <U+2740>                                                    <U+2756>
                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                      <U+2744>
                                              <U+273F>                                                <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2734>
                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                      <U+274F>                                                                        <U+273F>
                                              <U+273E>                                                <U+273E>
                                                      <U+2744>       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                      
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                      <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>
                                                                      <U+274D>
                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                               <U+273E>
                              <U+271E>
                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+2743>                                                   <U+25D7>                                                <U+275A>
                              <U+2706>
                                      <U+2742>                                               <U+2742>                                            <U+2742>
                      <U+270F>
                                      <U+2741>                                                   P                                        <U+2741>
                      <U+270E>
                      <U+270D>
                      <U+270C>

                                                                                                                                                                      18/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2465>
                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2464>
                                  <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2463>
                                  <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2462>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2737>
                  <U+2736>
                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2764>
                                                                      <U+2746>                       <U+273F>                                                           <U+2749>                                <U+2749>
                                                      <U+2741>                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                          <U+2720>                           <U+273D>               <U+273D>                       <U+273D>                   <U+273D>                                   <U+273D>                                <U+273D>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2762>
                                                                                              <U+2746>                   <U+273F>                                   <U+273F>
                                                      <U+2740>               <U+273E>                                                                                                                <U+273E>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                      <U+273F>               <U+2746>                                               <U+2749>                                                                <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276A>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                      <U+273E>               <U+273E>                           <U+2749>               <U+273E>                                   <U+273E>                                    <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275E>
                                                      <U+273D>               <U+273D>                       <U+273D>                   <U+273D>                                   <U+273D>                                <U+273D>
              <U+2734>
                          <U+271D>
                                                      <U+273C>               <U+273C>                                           <U+273C>                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                  <U+2748>                                                                                        <U+2768>
              <U+2733>
                          <U+2701>
              <U+2732>
                          <U+2706>
              <U+2731>
              <U+2730>
                          <U+260E>
              <U+272F>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>                                                            <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                          <U+271B>                                               <U+271C>
                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                          <U+2716>                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                              <U+2745>
                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                                          <U+2715>                                   <U+2756>
                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271B>
                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                              <U+2729>                                                                                                                    <U+2745>
                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2724>
                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2461>
                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                      <U+25C6>
                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2708>
                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274B>
                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2710>
                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                               
                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2767>
                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                   |
                                      
                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274D>
                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274B>
                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>
                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274D>
                                      <U+274A>                                                                                                       P                                    <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2767>
                                                  <U+2777>
                                                                                  <U+2469>
                                                  <U+2778>
                                                                                      <U+2778>
                              <U+270F>
                                              <U+2468>
                                                                                  <U+2468>
                              <U+261B>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           q
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                              <U+2717>                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2663>
                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                          <U+2717>                       <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                              <U+261E>           <U+2716>                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>                                    <U+2717>
                                          <U+2716>                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>                                    <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>                                    <U+2716>
                              <U+261B>
                                          <U+2715>                       <U+2715>                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>                                    <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                          <U+2714>                       <U+2714>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>                                    <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>                                                    <U+2716>
                                                                                          <U+2717>
                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>                                    <U+2716>
                                          <U+2713>                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>                                    <U+2716>
                                                                                          <U+2715>
                      <U+272D>
                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                          <U+2712>                       <U+2712>                                           <U+2718>                       <U+2605>           <U+2723>                        <U+2605>                           <U+2714>
                      <U+272C>
                      <U+272B>

                                                                                                                                                                                  19/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A4>
                                  <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A2>
                                  <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A1>
                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A0>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759>               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>                           <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25D7>           <U+2666>
                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P               P
                  <U+2724>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2756>               <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276B>
                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25C6>               <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>               <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           q               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273E>
                                                                                                              <U+275C>                           <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                              <U+2751>
                                                                  <U+2745>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                  <U+2747>
                                              <U+274F>
                                              
                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                                  <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2741>
                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2729>
                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2467>
                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2462>
                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2462>
                                                                                      <U+2462>
                                                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2469>
                                                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2466>
                                                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272D>
                                                                                      <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                                                      <U+2707>                                                                                                                                    <U+2709>                       <U+2709>
                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                      <U+2708>                                                                                                                                        <U+2464>                       <U+2464>
                                                                                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272A>
                                                                                      <U+2709>                                                                                                                                    <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2464>
                                                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2605>
                                                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                      t                                                                                                                                    t                           <U+2468>
                                                                                                                      <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2732>
                                                                      <U+2784>                   <U+277D>                                                                           <U+2787>                                <U+2787>
                                                  <U+277F>                                                                       <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272F>
                          <U+2720>                       <U+277B>                   <U+277B>                   <U+277B>                               <U+277B>                                       <U+277B>                                <U+277B>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2730>
                                                                                          <U+2784>                               <U+277D>                                       <U+277D>
                                                  <U+277E>                   <U+277C>                                                                                                                            <U+277C>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272F>
                                                                                          <U+277D>
                                                  <U+277D>                   <U+2784>                                                       <U+2787>                                                                    <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                  <U+277C>                   <U+277C>                       <U+2787>                           <U+277C>                                       <U+277C>                                    <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272E>
                                                  <U+277B>                   <U+277B>                   <U+277B>                               <U+277B>                                       <U+277B>                                <U+277B>
              <U+2722>
                          <U+271D>
                                                  <U+277A>                   <U+277A>                                                   <U+277A>                                       <U+277A>
                                                                                              <U+2786>                                                                                                        <U+279D>
              <U+271C>
                          <U+2701>
              <U+271B>
                          <U+2706>
              <U+271A>
              <U+2719>
                          <U+260E>
              <U+2718>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                                                                <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2779>
                                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2720>                                                       <U+2721>
                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                      <U+260E>                       <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+2783>
                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                       <U+2792>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2778>
                                                                              <U+2712>                                                                                                                                <U+2783>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2782>
                                                                              <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2781>
                                                                              <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                      <U+2791>
                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2789>
                                                                              <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                      <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2790>
                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+278B>
                                      <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278C>
                                      <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2192>
                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278B>
                                      <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2789>
                                      <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2790>
                                      <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278F>
                                      <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278B>
                                      <U+2788>                                                                                                                   <U+2793>                                    <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                              <U+270F>
                              <U+261B>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                          <U+2706>                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                              <U+261E>           <U+260E>                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>                                    <U+2706>
                                          <U+260E>                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                    <U+260E>
                              <U+261B>
                                          <U+2704>                   <U+2704>                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                          <U+2702>                   <U+2702>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                    <U+260E>
                                          <U+2701>                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                      <U+2716>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                       <U+2711>           <U+261E>                        <U+2711>                           <U+2702>
                      <U+2715>
                      <U+2714>

                                                                                                                                                          20/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278A>
                                  <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2789>
                                  <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2788>
                                  <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2787>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                               q
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2461>
                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2660>
                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                      <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274D>
                                                      <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2778>
                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2777>
                                                              <U+2759>
                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2776>
                                                      <U+2768>
                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2466>
                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2469>
                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2468>
                                                      <U+2772>
                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>
                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                              P
                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                      <U+276F>                                       <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2747>
                                                                                              <U+2780>
                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2784>
                                                                                              <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277F>
                                                                                              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277A>
                                                                                              <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273E>
                                                                                              <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2782>               <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277A>               <U+277A>
                                                                                              <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                              <U+277B>                                                                            <U+2781>               <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                              <U+277A>                                                                            <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                              <U+2779>                                                                            <U+2779>                   <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2743>
                                                                  <U+2734>                                   <U+272D>
                                          <U+272F>                                       <U+2736>                               <U+2736>                           <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2740>
                          <U+2720>               <U+272B>                       <U+272B>               <U+272B>                   <U+272B>           <U+272B>                           <U+272B>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2741>
                                                                                  <U+272D>                   <U+2734>                                       <U+272D>
                                          <U+272E>                       <U+272C>                                               <U+272C>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                          <U+272D>                       <U+2734>                                               <U+272E>
                                                                                  <U+272E>                                                           <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                          <U+272C>                       <U+272C>               <U+272C>                                   <U+275B>                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273F>
                                          <U+272B>                       <U+272B>               <U+272B>                   <U+272B>           <U+272B>                           <U+272B>
              <U+2722>
                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+272A>                       <U+272A>               <U+272A>                                                           <U+272A>
                                                                                                      <U+276B>               <U+2775>
              <U+271C>
                          <U+2701>
              <U+271B>
                          <U+2706>
              <U+271A>
              <U+2719>
                          <U+260E>
              <U+2718>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2746>
                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                                                                                        <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+2720>                                                                           <U+2721>
                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                              <U+260E>                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+2735>                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                          <U+2712>                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2744>
                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2740>
                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2747>
                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2747>
                              <U+270F>
                              <U+261B>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273D>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                  <U+2706>                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274B>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                      <U+2706>                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                              <U+261E>       <U+260E>                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2706>                                <U+2706>
                                      <U+260E>                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                <U+260E>
                              <U+261B>
                                      <U+2704>                   <U+2704>                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+261B>
                                      <U+2702>                   <U+2702>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>                        <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+2706>
                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                <U+260E>
                                      <U+2701>                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                      <U+2716>
                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>                           <U+2711>           <U+261E>                    <U+2711>   <U+2702>
                      <U+2715>
                      <U+2714>

                                                                      21/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                   <U+2789>
                                                                                   <U+2789>
                                                                                   <U+2788>
                                  <U+278C>
                                                                                   <U+2787>
                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                               <U+278D>
                                                                                   <U+2786>
                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                           <U+278B>
                                                                                           <U+278A>
                                                                                   <U+2785>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                       <U+2784>
                                                  q                     q
                                                                                       <U+2783>
                                                  <U+2767>                     <U+2767>
                                                                                       <U+2782>
                                                  r                     r
                                                                                       <U+2781>
                  <U+271C>
                                                  q                     q
                  <U+271B>
                                                  <U+2663>                     <U+2663>
                  <U+271A>
                                                  <U+2767>                     <U+2767>
                                                  <U+2666>                     <U+2666>
                                                  <U+2665>                     <U+2665>
                                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2660>                     <U+2660>
                                                                                                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2767>                     <U+2767>
                                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2766>                     <U+2766>
                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                   <U+273D>
                                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                      <U+277A>
                                                                                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                      <U+277B>
                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                      <U+2462>
                                      <U+2778>
                                      <U+2461>
                                      <U+277A>
                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                      <U+2778>
                                                                                                   <U+2729>
                                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                   <U+2726>
                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                                   <U+2725>
                                      <U+2468>
                                                                                                   <U+2724>
                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                      <U+2466>
                                                                                                   <U+2722>
                                      <U+2465>
                                      <U+2464>
                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                   <U+272E>
                          <U+2706>
                                      <U+2462>
                                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                          <U+2701>
                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                   <U+272A>
              <U+2719>
                          <U+2706>
              <U+2718>
                          <U+2706>
              <U+2717>
                          <U+2701>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2715>
                          <U+260E>
              <U+2714>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                               q
                                                                                                   <U+2731>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                  <U+2663>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                               <U+2460>
                                                                  <U+2780>
                                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                               <U+2767>
                                                                                                   <U+2722>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                               <U+2709>
                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                               <U+2707>
                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                               q
                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                               <U+2708>
                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                               <U+2709>
                                                                               t
                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                               s
                                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                   <U+273E>
                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                                      <U+276C>
                                          <U+276C>
                                                          <U+2765>
                                          <U+2769>
                                                          <U+2710>
                                          <U+2768>           <U+2773>
                                                      <U+2772>
                                          <U+2773>
                                                      <U+2768>
                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                          <U+2771>               <U+2764>
                                                                                                   <U+2733>
                                                                                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                          <U+274D>
                              <U+270D>
                                          
                              <U+2720>
                                          <U+2741>
                                          <U+274B>
                              <U+270E>
                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                                              <U+276F>
                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                              <U+276F>
                                              <U+275A>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                          <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2759>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                                   <U+2736>
                                              <U+25C6>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                              <U+2762>
                                          <U+274A>
                                              |
                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                              <U+2761>
                              <U+261E>
                                          <U+2749>   <U+2751>
                                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                              <U+2751>
                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                   <U+2734>
                                          <U+2748>
                                                              <U+275E>
                                              <U+25C6>
                              <U+261B>
                                          <U+2747>
                                                              <U+25C6>
                                              P
                                          <U+2746>
                                                              <U+275D>
                                              P
                                          <U+2745>
                              <U+2721>
                                              <U+2751>
                                                              <U+275A>
                              <U+2720>           <U+2744>
                                                              <U+2759>
                                              <U+2756>
                                                              <U+275C>
                                          <U+2743>
                                                              <U+275B>
                                              <U+25C6>
                              <U+271F>
                                                          <U+276B>
                                                              P
                                              <U+25BC>
                      <U+2713>
                                          <U+2742>
                                                              <U+2751>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                          <U+2741>
                                                          <U+276A>
                      <U+2712>                                       <U+2775>
                                              <U+2751>
                                              <U+274F>               <U+2774>
                                          <U+2740>               <U+276D>
                      <U+2711>
                      <U+270F>

                                                                  22/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                   <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                  <U+2717>
                                      <U+2713>
                                      <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2714>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                              <U+260E>
              <U+2717>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                              <U+261B>
              <U+271A>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                              <U+270C>
                                                              <U+2702>
                              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2704>
                              <U+2704>
                                                              <U+270D>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271C>
                  <U+2719>
                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271B>
                  <U+2713>
                                              <U+2702>
                                              <U+2704>
                                              <U+2701>
                                              <U+260E>
                                              <U+2704>
                                              <U+2702>
                          <U+2716>
                                              <U+2701>
                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2729>
                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                           <U+271A>           <U+271A>
                                                                               <U+2713>           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2713>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                  <U+260E>                                                                <U+260E>
                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                               <U+2605>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2704>                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                      <U+2714>
                                          <U+2721>
                                                  <U+270C>                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                               <U+2727>
                                          <U+2720>
                                                  <U+260E>                                                                <U+260E>
                      <U+2714>
                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2704>                                                                <U+2704>
                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                  <U+261E>                                                                <U+261E>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                          <U+2706>

                                                                                                                                                                          23/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                          <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2790>                   <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                          <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                          <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2794>
                                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                                      <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                          <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278F>
                                                                                                          <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B1>
                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278E>
                                                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                                                      <U+27A7>
                          
                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                      <U+2784>                                                                           <U+27AC>
                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                      <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AC>
                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B7>
                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B4>
                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2798>
                                                      <U+2782>
                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B9>
                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AA>
                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AA>
                                                                                      <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+279A>
                                                      <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BE>
                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                      <U+277E>
                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                      <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BC>
                                                      <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                          <U+2779>                   <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                      <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BC>
                                                                                                          <U+2467>                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                      <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                  <U+2464>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                          <U+2778>
                                                      <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2770>
                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                          <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BB>
                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2770>                       
                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                                                                          <U+2776>
                                                                                      <U+279E>
                                                      <U+277A>                               <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BA>
                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                                                                          <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B8>
                                                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2752>                                                              
                                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                              <U+2460>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2707>                                                                                                         <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                              <U+2709>                                   <U+2709>                                   <U+2709>                           <U+2709>                           <U+2709>                       <U+2709>                       <U+2709>                                   <U+2709>                                               <U+2709>                               <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                  <U+2710>
                                                  <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                              <U+2707>                                   <U+2709>                                                                                         <U+2709>                       <U+2709>                                                                                                                                         
                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                              <U+2709>                                   <U+2709>                                   <U+2709>                                                      <U+2709>                       <U+2709>                                                          <U+2709>                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                  <U+2708>                                                                                           <U+2708>                       <U+2708>                                                           <U+2708>
                                                              <U+2708>                                                                       <U+2460>                           <U+2460>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2460>                                                                                   <U+2460>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+2761>
                                                              <U+2709>                                   <U+2709>                                   <U+2709>                           <U+2709>                           <U+2709>                       <U+2709>                       <U+2709>                                   <U+2709>                                               <U+2709>                               <U+2709>
                              <U+275E>
                  <U+2704>
                              <U+275E>
                                                              t                                   t                                   t                           t                           t                       t                       t                                   t                                               t                               t
                              <U+275D>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                              <U+2660>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2465>                               <U+2465>                                       <U+2465>                       <U+2465>                       <U+2465>                               <U+2465>                       <U+2465>                                           <U+2465>                                       <U+2465>                       <U+2465>
                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                              s                                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>                                                                                                                                           <U+2767>
                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  q
                                                                                  <U+2464>                               <U+2464>                                       <U+2464>                       <U+2464>                       <U+2464>                               <U+2464>                       <U+2464>                                           <U+2464>                                       <U+2464>                       <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                              r                                                                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                  <U+2463>                                       <U+2463>                       <U+2463>                       <U+2463>                               <U+2463>                                                                   <U+2463>
                                                                                  <U+2463>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2463>                                                                                   <U+2463>                       <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                  <U+2462>                               <U+2462>                                       <U+2462>                       <U+2462>                       <U+2462>                               <U+2462>                       <U+2462>                                           <U+2462>                                       <U+2462>                       <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                              <U+2764>                               <U+2764>                                       <U+2764>                       <U+2764>                       <U+2764>                               <U+2764>                       <U+2764>                                           <U+2764>                                       <U+2764>                       <U+2764>
                                                              <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>                           <U+2666>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                  r                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                  <U+2461>                               <U+2461>                                       <U+2461>                       <U+2461>                       <U+2461>                               <U+2461>                       <U+2461>                                           <U+2461>                                       <U+2461>                       <U+2461>
                                                              <U+2665>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2665>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                  r                           r
                                                                                                                                      r                                                                               r                                                           r
                                                              q                                                                                                                                                                               q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>                           <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                              <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>                                                                               <U+2666>                                                           <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                              <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              q
                                                              <U+2665>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                              <U+2660>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>                           <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                              <U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>                           <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                      q                                                                               q                                                           q
                                                              <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2766>
                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                              <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2765>
                                              <U+2774>
                                          <U+271E>
                                              <U+276B>
                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+272A>
                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                      <U+273E>                   <U+2195>                           <U+273E>                       <U+273E>                                       <U+2799>                       <U+2799>               <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                      <U+273D>                                               <U+273D>                       <U+273D>                                       <U+273D>                       <U+273D>               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                              <U+2747>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                          <U+2740>                                                                                       <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272F>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2751>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>                                   <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>                                                                                       <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                          <U+2745>                                                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                          <U+274B>                                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>                                                                               <U+2742>                                                                               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                          <U+2746>                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                              <U+2743>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                          <U+2742>                                                                                       <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                          <U+2731>                                                                                       <U+2749>                                                                               <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                          <U+2730>                                   <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                  <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                          <U+274A>                                                                                       <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+274D>                                                                               <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+272F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                          <U+273C>                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                          <U+273C>                                               <U+2749>                       <U+2749>                                       <U+273C>                       <U+2749>               <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>               <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                  <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+273B>                   <U+273F>                           <U+2748>                       <U+2748>           <U+274F>                           <U+273B>                       <U+2748>               <U+2748>
                                                          <U+272D>                                                                                                               <U+272E>                                                                                                   <U+272E>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                                          24/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
              <U+261E>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AA>
                                                                                              <U+2790>
                                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2467>               <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                              <U+278F>
                                                                                                          <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                              <U+278E>
                                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2777>
                                                                                              <U+278D>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                              <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2777>
                                                                                                          <U+27A7>
                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                  <U+2788>
                                      
                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2776>
                                                                                                          <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2464>
                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                      s                                                   <U+27A5>
                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BA>
                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                      r
                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                                                      q
                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                      <U+2462>
                                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                  <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                      <U+2460>
                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                      <U+2708>
                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                                                                          <U+27A3>
                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B5>
                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                              <U+2764>           <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                                              <U+275C>                                                                                                                       <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                                                          <U+2194>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                          <U+27A3>
                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                      <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                                                                                                          <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                          <U+2192>
                                                                                  <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B2>                               <U+27AF>                       <U+27B9>
                                                                                                          <U+2794>
                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+2780>
                                                      <U+2710>                           <U+277F>
                                                                                                          <U+2793>
                                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                          <U+2793>
                                                                                                          <U+2792>
                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                          <U+2791>
                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AB>                               <U+27B2>                       <U+27B2>
                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                  <U+2706>
                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                          <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                          <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                  
                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+276B>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                  <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                  <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                  <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2794>                                   <U+2794>                       <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2194>                                   <U+2194>                       <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                  <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2792>                                   <U+2792>                       <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2703>
                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2752>
                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2752>
                                                  <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>                                                                   <U+27B7>
                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                  
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AC>                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                              
                          <U+270D>
                                                              
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              
                              
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                              
                                                                  <U+260E>
                              
                                                              
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                              
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                              
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                          <U+273E>           <U+277B>           <U+273E>           <U+273E>               <U+277C>       <U+277C>       <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                          <U+273D>                       <U+273D>           <U+273D>               <U+273D>       <U+273D>       <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>                   <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                          <U+2747>                                                                                                                       <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                          <U+272F>                                                                                                       <U+2751>
                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>                               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                      <U+25CF>                                   <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                      <U+2745>                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                      <U+274B>                                   <U+274B>
                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                  <U+2742>                               <U+2742>                                                           <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                      <U+2746>                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                          <U+2743>
                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                      <U+2742>                                   <U+2742>
                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                          <U+2731>                                                       <U+2749>                               <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                          <U+2730>                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                              <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                      <U+274A>                                   <U+274A>
                                                                                                                  <U+274D>                               <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+272F>                                                                                                                   <U+2733>
                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                              <U+273C>                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                              <U+273C>                       <U+2749>           <U+2749>               <U+273C>       <U+2749>       <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>               <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                              <U+270C>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+273B>           <U+273F>           <U+2748>           <U+2748>   <U+274F>           <U+273B>       <U+2748>       <U+2748>
                                                          <U+272D>                                                               <U+272E>                                                   <U+272E>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>

                                                                                                                                                                                      25/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>                       <U+2701>                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                      
                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                  
                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                      
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+275E>
                                                      
                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                          <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277F>
                                                                                                          <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2790>
                                                                                                          <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2781>                                                                   <U+27AF>
                                                                                                          <U+2781>
                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278F>
                                                                                                          <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2780>
                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+277F>
                                                                                                          <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+277E>                                                   <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                      <U+277E>
                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                          <U+277D>                                                   <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+277D>
                                                                                                          <U+2778>                                                   <U+2778>                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                      <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                          <U+277A>                                                   <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                      <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                      <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+277C>                                                   <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2779>
                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                          <U+277B>                                                   <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+278B>
                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                                                          <U+277A>                                                   <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                      <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A2>
                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                          <U+2779>                                                   <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>
                                                                                                          <U+2778>                                                   <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277A>
                                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                                                                                              <U+2786>
                                                                                                          <U+2778>                                                   <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>                                   <U+279D>
                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                              <U+2784>                                                                                                   <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279E>
                                                                                          <U+2464>                                                                                   <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                          <U+2777>                                                   <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>                                   <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                          <U+2710>                                                                                           <U+2788>                                                   <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2460>
                                                                                                          <U+2776>                                                   <U+2776>                                                       <U+279D>
                                                                                  t
                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+278E>                                                                                                   <U+279E>                               <U+279E>
                                                              <U+275C>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A9>
                                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2778>                                                   <U+2778>
                                                                                                          <U+2469>                                                   <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A1>
                                                                                          <U+2462>                                   <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2469>                                                   <U+2469>
                                                                                                          <U+2469>                                                   <U+2469>
                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                          <U+2461>                                   <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2468>                                                   <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                          <U+2468>                                                   <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>               <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2784>
                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A7>
                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                          <U+2460>               <U+2467>                       <U+2460>   <U+2787>               <U+278C>       <U+2467>               <U+2793>           <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>           <U+279B>
                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                  t                                                                                                                   <U+276B>               <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                  <U+2706>
                                  s
                  <U+260E>
                                  s
                  <U+2704>
                                  r
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                                  q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                  <U+2798>
                                                                                                              <U+276E>
                                                                  <U+27B9>
                                                                                                              <U+2752>
                                                                                                              <U+2750>
                                                                  <U+279A>
                                                                                                              <U+2703>
                                                                                                              <U+27B1>
                                                                  <U+27B6>
                                                                  <U+27AA>
                                                                                                              <U+27AE>
                                                                                              <U+27AC>
                                                                  <U+279A>
                                                                                              <U+27B7>
                                                                  <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                              <U+27B4>
                                                                  <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                  <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                  <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                              <U+275C>
                                                                  <U+27B8>
                                              <U+275B>
                                              <U+2775>
                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                      <U+2712>
                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                          <U+273E>                                       <U+273E>                       <U+273E>                                                   <U+2751>               <U+2751>           <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>                       <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+2747>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2730>                                                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>                       |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>                                                                                           <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                      <U+2745>                                                                                           <U+2745>
                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                      <U+274B>                                                                                           <U+274B>
                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>                                                                           <U+2742>                                       |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                      <U+2746>                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                      <U+2742>                                                                                           <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2732>                                                                                               <U+2749>                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                  <U+2731>                                   <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                      <U+274A>                                                                                           <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+274D>                                                                           <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2730>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                      <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+273D>                                                                                                                   <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                              <U+273D>                                       <U+2749>                           <U+2749>                                               <U+273D>               <U+2749>           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>           <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                      <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+273C>       <U+273F>                               <U+2748>                           <U+2748>                   <U+274F>                           <U+273C>               <U+2748>           <U+2748>
                                                  <U+272E>                                                                                                                                   <U+272F>                                                       <U+272F>
                      <U+271E>
                          <U+260E>
                      <U+271D>

                                                                                                      26/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                              <U+2763>       <U+2460>
                                                                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2794>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                          <U+278E>
                                                      <U+2462>                                                           <U+2783>
                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                              <U+277B>
                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                              <U+2781>
                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2780>
                                                                                                                              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                      <U+2461>
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                      <U+2460>
                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                          <U+278D>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                          <U+278C>
                                                                                                                  <U+2783>
                                                                                                          <U+2778>
                                                      <U+2707>
                  <U+2704>
                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2782>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2781>
                                                                                                          <U+2777>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2780>
                                                                                                                  <U+2781>
                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                                          <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                  <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2793>
                                                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2792>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2791>
                                                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2790>
                                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                                                                  <U+277B>
                                                      <U+2708>
                                                                      <U+2465>
                                                      s
                                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+278F>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                                  <U+277B>
                                                      t
                                                                      <U+2466>
                                                      s
                                                                                                                  <U+277A>
                                                                      <U+2465>
                                                      r
                                                                  <U+2763>
                                                      q
                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                      <U+2464>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                          <U+2774>
                                          <U+276B>
                                          <U+276A>
                                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+276D>
                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                          <U+273C>               <U+273C>       <U+273C>       <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>       <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                              <U+2745>                                                                               <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                      <U+273E>                                           <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                      <U+272E>                                                           
                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>       <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                      <U+274A>                                           <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                      <U+2743>                                           <U+2743>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                      <U+2749>                                           <U+2749>
                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                              <U+2740>                                               <U+2740>           <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                      <U+2744>                                           <U+2744>
                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                              <U+25CF>                                               <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                      <U+2740>                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2730>                                           <U+2747>                                               <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+272F>                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                      <U+2748>                                           <U+2748>
                                                                                              <U+274B>                                               <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                  <U+272E>                                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                  <U+261E>
                                                              <U+273B>                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                              <U+273E>
                                                              <U+273B>                       <U+2747>       <U+2747>               <U+273B>                   <U+2747>           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                             |
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                  <U+261B>
                      <U+271F>
                                                              <U+273A>               <U+273D>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>   <U+274D>           <U+273A>                   <U+2746>           <U+2746>
                                                  <U+272C>                                                   <U+272D>                                           <U+272D>
                      <U+271E>
                          <U+260E>
                      <U+271D>

                                                                                                                          27/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                  <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                  <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                  <U+2708>                               <U+278D>                                                                                                       <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                              <U+275C>                   s                               s                                                                                                       <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                  
                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271B>
                                                                  <U+2709>                               <U+2709>                                                                                                       <U+27B7>
                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                  t                               t                                                                                                       <U+27B4>
                                              <U+2774>                                                                                   <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                  t                               t                                                                                                      <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                      
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                  s
                                                                  s                                                                                                                                       <U+2798>
                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                      
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                  r                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                          
                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                   
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                          
                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                  <U+276E>       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                              <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B9>
                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                              <U+2786>
                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+277D>
                                                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                  q
                                                                                                              <U+2793>
                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2703>
                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BD>
                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AA>       <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                              <U+2791>                                                                                           <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BA>
                                                                                              <U+2788>
                                                                                                              <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B8>
                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                              <U+2787>
                                                                                                              <U+275C>                                                                                           <U+27B8>
                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                              <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279A>
                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A7>
                                                                                              <U+2786>
                                                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                              <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                  <U+2766>                           <U+2784>
                                                                                                              <U+278E>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                              <U+2784>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                      <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                              <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BD>
                                                      <U+277A>                                                                       <U+279A>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279A>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                              <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BC>
                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+2784>
                                                                                                                              <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BB>
                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                      <U+2778>
                                                                                              <U+2783>
                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B8>
                                                                                      <U+277B>
                                                                                              <U+2782>                       <U+27A1>
                                      <U+271D>               <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                      <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                          <U+276C>                                                   <U+2781>
                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A6>
                                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                              <U+2780>                       <U+279F>
                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                                      <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                              <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AB>
                                                                                              <U+277D>
                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A6>
                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                              <U+277C>
                                                                                      <U+2776>
                                                      <U+2466>                               <U+2194>                               <U+279D>                                       <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                          <U+273B>           <U+2465>           <U+273B>                   <U+273B>                                       <U+2460>                               <U+2460>           <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+2744>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274D>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+273D>                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                          <U+272D>                                                                                                       <U+274D>
                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2730>           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                          <U+2749>                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                          <U+2742>                                                                                       <U+2742>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                          <U+2748>                                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                          <U+273F>                                                                                   <U+273F>                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                          <U+2743>                                                                                       <U+2743>
                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                          <U+274B>                                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                          <U+273F>                                                                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                  <U+272F>                                                       <U+2746>                                                                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+272E>                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                          <U+2747>                                                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                          <U+274A>                                                                                   <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                  <U+272D>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2731>
                                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                              <U+273A>                                                                                   <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                              <U+273A>                           <U+2746>               <U+2746>                                       <U+273A>                               <U+2746>           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                  <U+261B>
                      <U+271E>
                                                              <U+2739>           <U+273C>               <U+2745>               <U+2745>       <U+25CF>                               <U+2739>                               <U+2745>           <U+2745>
                                                  <U+272B>                                                                       <U+272C>                                                                                   <U+272C>
                      <U+271D>
                          <U+2704>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                                                              28/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AE>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
              <U+261E>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>                   <U+274A>                           <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>               <U+278A>                       <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2789>               <U+2789>                       <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2799>
                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                   <U+2740>                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2788>               
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>                   <U+2749>                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2798>
                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2787>               <U+2787>                       <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2786>               <U+2786>                       <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>                   <U+273E>                           <U+273E>
                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>                   <U+2743>                           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2784>               <U+2788>                       <U+2788>
                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                                      <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                          <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2787>
                                                                                          <U+279B>                                                                                               <U+2784>                       <U+2784>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                                                                      <U+27B3>                                                                   <U+2786>               <U+2786>                       <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B6>
                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2790>
                          
                                                                                                              
                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A0>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                  <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2785>                                      
                                                                                                      <U+27B2>       
                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                          
                                                  <U+277A>
                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2784>               <U+2784>                       <U+2784>
                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                                  <U+2194>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                      <U+27AF>                   
                          <U+2770>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                          
                                                  <U+277B>
                                                                                                      <U+27AB>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      <U+27A9>                   
                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                                                                                          
                                                              <U+2783>
                                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                  <U+277A>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                              <U+2782>
                                                  <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                              <U+2781>
                                                  <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                              <U+2780>
                                                  <U+2776>
                                                              <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BE>
                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                      <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BD>
                                                                                                      <U+27A7>
                                                                                          <U+2463>                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2716>
                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                          
                                                  <U+2469>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                      <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BD>
                                                                                          <U+2462>                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BC>
                                                                                                          <U+2460>                                                                                                                                               <U+272C>
                                                                                                                              <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BA>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BA>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                      <U+2763>                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AC>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2790>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BB>               <U+27BA>                       <U+27B7>
                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                                                  <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                  <U+278E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                          <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2707>
                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B5>                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B8>
                                                                                                      <U+27A1>                   
                                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B5>               <U+27BB>                       <U+27BB>
                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                              <U+2763>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                          <U+2709>
                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                          t
                                              <U+275E>
                                                          s
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+275D>
                                                          r
                              <U+275C>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+275C>
                                                          q
                  <U+2704>
                              <U+275B>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                              <U+2460>
                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                              <U+2707>
                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                          <U+2660>
                                                          <U+2767>
                                                          <U+2766>
                                                          <U+2710>
                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                          <U+2774>
                                          <U+276B>
                                          <U+276A>
                                      <U+271F>
                                          <U+276D>
                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                  <U+278C>                           <U+278C>                   <U+278C>                               <U+278C>       <U+278C>       <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                      <U+2745>                                                                                                                       <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                  <U+273E>                                                           <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                              <U+272F>                                                                           
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>                   <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                  <U+274A>                                                           <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                  <U+2743>                                                           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+2749>                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                               <U+2740>                                   <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                  <U+2744>                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>                                               <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2731>                                                               <U+2747>                                               <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                      <U+2730>                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                  <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                  <U+2748>                                                           <U+2748>
                                                                                                                      <U+274B>                                               <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                      <U+272F>                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                      <U+273C>                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                      <U+273C>                           <U+2747>                   <U+2747>                               <U+273C>       <U+2747>       <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                  <U+270C>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+273B>               <U+273D>           <U+2746>                   <U+2746>           <U+274D>                   <U+273B>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                                      <U+272D>                                                                                       <U+272E>                                       <U+272E>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>

                                                                                                                  29/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F>
                                      <U+2742>                                                       <U+2743>                               <U+2743>
                                      <U+2742>                                                       <U+2742>                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                          <U+2775>                                                           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                          <U+2745>                                                       <U+2745>                               <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                          <U+2774>                                                       <U+2744>                               <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                      <U+2743>                                                       <U+2742>                               <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                      <U+2742>                                                       <U+2742>                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                  <U+260E>
                                                  
                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                  <U+2714>
                                                  <U+2749>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                  <U+2712>
                                                  <U+274B>
                                                      <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                  <U+2702>                               <U+2759>
                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                      <U+2764>
                                                  |
                                                      <U+2763>
                                  <U+2712>
                  <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                     <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>           <U+2723>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                  <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                      <U+2766>
                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                  <U+2774>
                                          <U+275B>                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                          r
                                              q
                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                          <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                              
                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                          t
                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                          <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                          t
                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                          <U+2786>
                                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                          <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                      t
                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                          <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                      t
                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                      <U+2469>
                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                              <U+2767>                                       <U+2464>
                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                              <U+270F>                                                       <U+2460>
                                                              <U+277C>
                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                              <U+277E>
                                                                                      <U+2462>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+2466>
                                                              <U+2780>
                                                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                          t
                                                              <U+277F>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+2468>
                                                              <U+277E>
                                                                          <U+2464>
                                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                      <U+2465>                                               <U+2708>
                                                              <U+277D>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                      t
                                                              <U+277C>
                                                              <U+277C>
                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                          t
                                                                                                                      s
                                                              <U+277B>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+2467>
                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                          t
                                                              <U+277A>
                                                                          r
                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                              <U+2779>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+2466>
                                                                              <U+2783>
                                                          <U+2464>                               s
                                                                          t                                           <U+2708>
                                                              <U+2779>
                                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                                              <U+2782>
                                                              <U+2778>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                              <U+2777>               <U+2781>
                                                                                      <U+2460>
                                                          s               <U+2707>               r                           <U+2707>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2745>
                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                      <U+271D>
                          <U+2704>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                                                  30/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2195>
                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278E>
                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2194>
                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                      <U+277C>
                                                                                  <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                                  <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278F>
                                                      <U+277B>
                                                                                              <U+27BC>
                                                                                  <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278B>
                                                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                              <U+27BA>
                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                                                  <U+27A1>
                                                      <U+2777>
                                                      <U+277A>
                                                                      <U+277E>
                                                                                              <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                      <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                              <U+27B2>
                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                      <U+277E>
                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                      <U+2778>
                                                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                                      <U+277D>
                                                      <U+2777>
                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2785>
                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2787>
                                                                                              <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2788>
                                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2782>                   <U+2786>
                                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                                  <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                  <U+279E>
                                                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                  <U+279C>
                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                          <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                              <U+2764>           s
                                                                                          
                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                          <U+2709>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                          t
                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                          
                                                          t
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+275E>
                                                                                          <U+2750>
                                                          s
                              <U+275D>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+275D>
                                                                                          <U+2770>
                                                          <U+2710>
                  <U+2704>
                              <U+275C>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2752>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                          <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                          <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                          <U+2752>
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B4>                                       <U+2722>
                                                                                          <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2798>
                                                                              <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                          <U+2703>                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                              <U+2464>                                       
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                                          <U+2767>                                                                                                                               <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                              
                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                          <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B6>
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                      
                                                                              <U+2462>
                                                          q
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279A>
                                                                                                                      
                                                                              <U+2461>
                                                                                                                              
                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                              <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                              
                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                          <U+2764>                                                                                                               <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                             
                                                                              <U+2707>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                              
                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                
                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                            
                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                          <U+2775>
                                                          <U+2765>
                                          <U+2774>
                                          <U+276B>
                                                          <U+2710>
                                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+276A>
                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                              <U+273D>                                   <U+273D>           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+2746>                                                                                                               <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                      <U+273F>                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                  <U+272F>                                                                       <U+274F>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                      <U+274B>                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                      <U+2744>                                       <U+2744>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                      <U+274A>                                       <U+274A>
                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                  <U+2741>                                   <U+2741>                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                      <U+2745>                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                  <U+274D>                                   <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                      <U+2741>                                       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2731>                                                               <U+2748>                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2730>                                   <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                      <U+2749>                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>                                   <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+272F>                                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+273C>                                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                  <U+273C>                                   <U+2748>           <U+2748>                   <U+273C>       <U+2748>       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                  <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+273B>                   <U+273E>               <U+2747>           <U+2747>                  <U+273B>       <U+2747>       <U+2747>
                                                  <U+272D>                                                                               <U+272E>                                           <U+272E>
                      <U+271E>
                          <U+260E>
                      <U+271D>

                                                                                                                                      31/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2778>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2708>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2709>                           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                  t                                                                                                                                                                                       t                           t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                  <U+2708>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+2708>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                      <U+2790>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2467>                           <U+2709>
                                                                                      <U+278F>
                  <U+260E>
                          <U+275E>
                                                  t                                                                                                                                                                                       t                           t
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27BD>
                                                                                      <U+275C>
                          <U+275D>
                  <U+2704>
                          <U+275D>
                                                  s                                                                                                                                                                                       s                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                      <U+278E>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+275C>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                      <U+278D>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27BC>
                                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B5>
                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                  <U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2767>
                                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                  <U+2463>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2463>                   <U+2463>
                                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                  r                                                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                  <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A9>
                                                                  <U+2462>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2462>                   <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2777>
                                                  q                                                                                                                                                                                   q
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                                  <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2461>                   <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                  <U+2194>
                                                                  <U+2460>                                                                                                                                       <U+279F>                                               <U+2460>                   <U+2460>
                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                              <U+2763>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2763>                   <U+2763>
                                                  <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>
                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BE>
                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                  <U+2707>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2707>                   <U+2707>
                                                  <U+2660>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>
                                                  <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2663>
                                                                                  <U+2785>               <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                          <U+279F>               <U+27A1>                   <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                  <U+279C>       <U+279D>                                                                                                                                           <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A9>
                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                  <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>                   <U+279B>                   <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                  <U+279B>           <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A8>
                                                                                  <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      q
                                                  <U+2665>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                  <U+2799>           <U+2799>           <U+279E>               <U+27A0>                   <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2663>
                                                  <U+2660>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                  <U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2767>
                                                                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                  <U+277E>                   <U+277E>
                                                                              <U+2782>                                                                                                               <U+2782>                   <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2766>                                                   <U+2766>                                                                                                                               <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>                   <U+2666>
                                                                              <U+2781>                                                                                                               <U+2781>                   <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                              <U+2781>                                                                                                               <U+2781>                   <U+2781>
                                                  <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2765>
                                      <U+2775>
                                                                              <U+2663>                                                                                                               <U+2663>                   <U+2663>
                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                      <U+2774>
                                                  <U+2710>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2710>
                                                                              <U+2780>                                                                                                               <U+2780>                   <U+2780>
                                      <U+276B>
                                  <U+271E>
                                      <U+276A>
                                      <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2466>                   <U+2466>                   <U+2466>
                                                      <U+273D>               <U+2465>                   <U+273D>               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>                   <U+273C>                   <U+273C>
                                                      <U+273C>                                   <U+273C>               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>               <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                          <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                       <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                              <U+273F>                                                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                      <U+272E>                                                                                                       <U+274F>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>               P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                              <U+274B>                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                              <U+2744>                                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2731>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                              <U+274A>                                                                       <U+274A>
                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                              <U+2741>                                                                           <U+2741>                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                              <U+2745>                                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                              <U+274D>                                                                           <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                          <U+2742>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                              <U+2741>                                                                       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                              <U+2730>                                                               <U+2748>                                                                           <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                              <U+272F>                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                              <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                              <U+2749>                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                              <U+25CF>                                                                           <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                              <U+272E>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                          <U+273B>                                                                                       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                          <U+273B>                                   <U+2748>               <U+2748>                                   <U+273B>                   <U+2748>                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                              <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                          <U+273A>               <U+273E>                   <U+2747>               <U+2747>                                  <U+273A>                   <U+2747>                   <U+2747>
                                              <U+272C>                                                                                       <U+272D>                                                                       <U+272D>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                              32/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
              <U+261E>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>               <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                          <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A6>
                                                      <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                          <U+27BC>
                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                                      <U+2782>
                          <U+27BB>                                                                                                                               <U+27A0>
                                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27B2>
                                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                      <U+278F>
                                                                                      <U+2780>
                                                      <U+2791>
                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                      <U+2790>
                                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                      <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                      <U+278F>                                                                                                                               <U+272C>
                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                      <U+278E>
                                                                                      <U+277D>
                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                      <U+277C>
                                                              <U+2192>
                                                      <U+278D>
                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                      <U+2778>
                                                              <U+2793>
                                                                                      <U+2776>
                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                      <U+277B>
                                                      <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                                      <U+277A>
                                                      <U+278A>                                                                                                                               <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2786>                       <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                      <U+2778>
                                                                                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                      <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2783>
                                                                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                              <U+2710>           <U+2464>
                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                          <U+2461>
                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                          <U+2463>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                          <U+2462>
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+2761>
                                                          <U+2461>
                              <U+275E>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+275E>
                                                          <U+2460>
                  <U+2704>
                              <U+275D>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                              <U+2468>
                                                          s
                                                                              <U+2467>
                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                          t
                                                                              <U+2466>
                                                          <U+2708>
                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                              <U+2465>
                                                          t
                                                          s
                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                          q
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                          <U+275B>
                                          <U+2775>
                                          <U+2774>
                                      <U+271F>
                                          <U+276B>
                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                  <U+273E>                       <U+273E>       <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                                           <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                              <U+2740>                       <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                              <U+2730>                                                   <U+2751>
                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                              <U+25CF>                       <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                              <U+2745>                       <U+2745>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                              <U+274B>                       <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                      <U+2742>                   <U+2742>                           <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                              <U+2746>                       <U+2746>
                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                              <U+2742>                       <U+2742>
                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2732>                                                   <U+2749>                   <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                  <U+2731>                               <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                              <U+274A>                       <U+274A>
                                                                                                      <U+274D>                   <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+2730>                                                                                   <U+2734>
                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+273D>                                           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                      <U+273D>                       <U+2749>       <U+2749>           <U+273D>   <U+2749>   <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>           <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                  <U+270C>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+273C>           <U+273F>           <U+2748>       <U+2748>   <U+274F>       <U+273C>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>
                                                  <U+272E>                                                           <U+272F>                       <U+272F>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>

                                                                                                                                      33/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                          <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278B>
                          <U+2703>
                                                      <U+277D>
                          <U+27B1>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278A>
                                                      <U+277A>
                                                      <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                                                                  <U+2780>
                                                      <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                      <U+277A>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>
                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                  <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                  <U+2780>
                                                      <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                      <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                      <U+2469>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2786>
                                                              <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                              <U+2752>                                                                                                                                       <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                              <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>                       <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2799>
                                                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                          <U+279C>                                                                       <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                          <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                                                      <U+27B8>           <U+27B8>                   <U+27B8>
                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                          <U+2798>                           <U+27BD>           <U+27BD>                   <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                      <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BE>           <U+27BE>                   <U+27BE>
                                                                                          <U+279E>                               <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                          <U+279E>       <U+279E>                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BA>           <U+27BA>                   <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                          <U+2799>                               <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BD>           <U+27BD>                   <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                          <U+27A6>       <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BC>           <U+27BC>                   <U+27BC>
                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                          <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                          <U+27A9>       <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BA>           <U+27BA>                   <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                          <U+279C>                                                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                          <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BB>           <U+27BB>                   <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>       <U+2799>
                                                                                          <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                              <U+2764>           <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BA>           <U+27BA>                   <U+27BA>
                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                                      <U+279A>                   <U+27A7>                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                          <U+27A5>           <U+27B8>   <U+27A5>       <U+27B8>       <U+27A5>       <U+27A5>   <U+27B8>                                                                               <U+2727>
                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                          <U+2463>
                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                      <U+27B3>           <U+27B3>                   <U+27B3>
                                                                                                          <U+279F>               <U+279F>               <U+279F>       <U+279F>
                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                          <U+27A1>               <U+27A1>               <U+27A1>       <U+27A1>               <U+2799>
                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                                                          <U+2462>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+27B5>           <U+27B5>                   <U+27B5>
                              <U+275E>
                                                          <U+2461>
                              <U+275D>                                                           <U+27B6>               <U+27A7>           <U+27B3>   <U+27A7>       <U+27B3>       <U+27A7>       <U+27A7>   <U+27B3>           <U+27A7>
                  <U+2704>
                              <U+275D>
                                                          <U+2460>
                  <U+2702>
                              <U+275C>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                  <U+2468>
                                                          s
                                                                                  <U+2467>
                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                          t
                                                                                  <U+2466>
                                                          <U+2708>
                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                          t
                                                          s
                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                          q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                          <U+2775>
                                          <U+2774>
                                          <U+276B>
                                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+276A>
                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                      <U+273D>                       <U+273D>               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+2746>                                                                                                                   <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+273F>                                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                      <U+272F>                                                                       <U+274F>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>               P
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                  <U+274B>                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                  <U+2744>                                                       <U+2744>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+274A>                                                       <U+274A>
                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                  <U+2741>                                                   <U+2741>                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                  <U+2745>                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                  <U+274D>                                                   <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                  <U+2741>                                                       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2731>                                                               <U+2748>                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2730>                                   <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                  <U+2749>                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>                                                   <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+272F>                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+273C>                                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                          <U+273C>                       <U+2748>               <U+2748>                           <U+273C>           <U+2748>           <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                  <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+273B>           <U+273E>           <U+2747>               <U+2747>                          <U+273B>           <U+2747>           <U+2747>
                                                  <U+272D>                                                                                   <U+272E>                                           <U+272E>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                                                  34/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                  <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                  <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                  <U+2776>
                                                  <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                              <U+277C>
                                                  <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                              <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                  <U+2776>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                              <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                  <U+2469>
                                                              <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                              <U+277C>
                                                  <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                              <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                              <U+277A>
                                                  <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279E>
                                                  <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                              <U+279B>
                                                  <U+2465>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                          <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                          <U+27B7>                                                                                                                                       <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                          <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27A6>                       <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                      <U+2194>                                                                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>           <U+27AF>                   <U+27AF>
                                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                      <U+279A>                           <U+27B8>           <U+27B8>                   <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                                                  <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                  <U+27BA>           <U+27BA>                   <U+27BA>
                                                                                      <U+2799>                               <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2799>       <U+2799>                                                                               <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>           <U+27B2>                   <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                      <U+2192>                               <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B8>           <U+27B8>                   <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A1>       <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B5>           <U+27B5>                   <U+27B5>
                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>           <U+27B2>                   <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                      <U+2194>                                                       <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>           <U+27B3>                   <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>       <U+2192>
                                                                                      <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                          <U+275E>           <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>           <U+27B2>                   <U+27B2>
                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                  <U+27BB>                   <U+27A2>                       <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A6>
                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                      <U+27A0>           <U+27AF>   <U+27A0>       <U+27AF>       <U+27A0>       <U+27A0>   <U+27AF>                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2794>
                                                      <U+2707>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>           <U+27AB>                   <U+27AB>
                                                                                                      <U+279B>               <U+279B>               <U+279B>       <U+279B>
                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                      <U+279D>               <U+279D>               <U+279D>       <U+279D>               <U+2192>
                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                      <U+2708>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>           <U+27AD>                   <U+27AD>
                          <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2709>
                          <U+275D>                                                           <U+27BD>               <U+27A2>           <U+27AB>   <U+27A2>       <U+27AB>       <U+27A2>       <U+27A2>   <U+27AB>           <U+27A2>
                  <U+2704>
                          <U+275D>
                                                      t
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+275C>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                      s
                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                              <U+2462>
                                                      r
                                                      q
                                                                              <U+2461>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                      <U+2775>
                                      <U+2774>
                                      <U+276B>
                                  <U+271E>
                                      <U+276A>
                                      <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                  <U+273D>                       <U+273D>               <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                  <U+2746>                                                                                                                   <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                              <U+273F>                                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                  <U+272F>                                                                       <U+274F>
                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>               P
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                              <U+274B>                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                              <U+2744>                                                       <U+2744>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                              <U+274A>                                                       <U+274A>
                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                              <U+2741>                                                   <U+2741>                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                              <U+2745>                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                              <U+274D>                                                   <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                              <U+2741>                                                       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                              <U+2731>                                                               <U+2748>                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                              <U+2730>                                   <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                              <U+2749>                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                              <U+25CF>                                                   <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                              <U+272F>                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+273C>                                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                      <U+273C>                       <U+2748>               <U+2748>                           <U+273C>           <U+2748>           <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                              <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+273B>           <U+273E>           <U+2747>               <U+2747>                          <U+273B>           <U+2747>           <U+2747>
                                              <U+272D>                                                                                   <U+272E>                                           <U+272E>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                                  35/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2710>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                              <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B5>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A7>
                                                                                              <U+27BC>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279D>
                                                                                              <U+2798>           
                                                                                              <U+27B9>           
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                 <U+27A7>
                                                                                              <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A2>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A6>
                                                  <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                              <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A1>
                                                                                                          
                                                  <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                                              <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A0>
                                                                                  <U+2781>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2781>
                                                                                              <U+27BE>
                                                  <U+278F>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                  <U+2780>                       
                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                              <U+27BD>
                                                                                                          
                                                          <U+2192>
                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                  <U+2790>
                                                                                              <U+27BC>
                                                                                                          
                                                          <U+2194>
                                                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                  <U+278F>                                                                                                                                       <U+272B>
                                                          <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                  <U+278E>
                                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                          <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                          <U+2192>
                                                  <U+278D>
                                                          <U+2794>
                                                                                  <U+2778>
                                                          <U+2793>
                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                  <U+278C>
                                                                                  <U+277B>
                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                              <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2789>
                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279F>
                                                                                              <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279E>
                                                                                              <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2788>
                                                                                  <U+277A>
                                                                                              <U+2770>
                                                  <U+278A>                                                                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                              <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                              <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                  <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2787>
                                                                                              <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2786>                       <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                  <U+2778>
                                                                                              <U+2703>
                                                                                  <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                                              <U+27B1>
                                                                                              <U+27AE>
                                                                                  <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                  <U+2777>
                                                                                              <U+27AC>
                                                                                              <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                              <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                  <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                          <U+2764>           <U+2464>
                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                      <U+2461>
                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2463>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                      <U+2462>
                  <U+260E>
                          <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2461>
                          <U+275D>
                  <U+2704>
                          <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2460>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+275C>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                      s
                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                      <U+2764>
                                                      t
                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                      <U+2708>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                      t
                                                      s
                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                      <U+2775>
                                      <U+2774>
                                      <U+276B>
                                  <U+271E>
                                      <U+276A>
                                      <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                              <U+273D>                       <U+273D>           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                              <U+2746>                                                                                   <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+273F>                               <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                  <U+272F>                                                   <U+274F>
                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>               P
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                          <U+274B>                               <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                          <U+2744>                               <U+2744>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                          <U+274A>                               <U+274A>
                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                      <U+2741>                       <U+2741>                           P
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                      |
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                          <U+2745>                               <U+2745>
                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                      <U+274D>                       <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                          <U+2741>                               <U+2741>
                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                              <U+2731>                                                       <U+2748>                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                              <U+2730>                               <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                          <U+2749>                               <U+2749>
                                                                                                      <U+25CF>                       <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                              <U+272F>                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+273C>                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                  <U+273C>                       <U+2748>           <U+2748>               <U+273C>   <U+2748>   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                              <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+273B>           <U+273E>           <U+2747>           <U+2747>              <U+273B>   <U+2747>   <U+2747>
                                              <U+272D>                                                                   <U+272E>                       <U+272E>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                                              36/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                      <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2195>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B4>   <U+27B5>
                                                                                                      <U+27BC>
                                                                                                      <U+27BC>
                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                  <U+2798>   <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2194>
                                                                                      <U+27A7>
                                                                                                      <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279E>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BA>                           <U+27A3>
                                                                                                      <U+27BA>           <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279D>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B6>
                                                                                                      <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                          
                                                  <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                                                                      <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                      <U+27A6>
                                                                          <U+277E>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AA>
                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                          <U+277D>
                                                                                                                          
                                                                          <U+277D>
                                                                                                      <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                  <U+279A>
                                                  <U+278B>                                                   <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                                                                          <U+277C>                                               
                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                      <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                  <U+27BE>
                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BB>
                                                          <U+2791>
                                                                          <U+277B>
                                                  <U+278C>
                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                          
                                                          <U+2793>
                                                                                                                  <U+27BD>
                                                                          <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                  <U+278B>                                                                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                                                          <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                          <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                          <U+2778>
                                                          <U+2791>
                                                  <U+2789>
                                                          <U+2790>
                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                          <U+278F>
                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                          <U+2777>
                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+2785>
                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                          <U+2776>
                                                                                                                  
                                                  <U+2786>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                  <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                  <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                  <U+27BB>
                                                                          <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                  <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                                                  <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                  <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                                                  <U+2750>
                                                                                                  <U+27BA>
                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2780>
                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                  <U+2703>
                                                                                                  <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B1>
                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2780>
                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                          <U+2764>           <U+2464>
                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                      <U+2461>
                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2463>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                      <U+2462>
                  <U+260E>
                          <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2461>
                          <U+275D>
                  <U+2704>
                          <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2460>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+275C>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                      s
                                                      <U+2707>
                                                      t
                                                      <U+2708>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                      t
                                                      s
                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                      <U+2775>
                                      <U+2774>
                                      <U+276B>
                                  <U+271E>
                                      <U+276A>
                                      <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                              <U+273D>               <U+273D>           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+2746>                                                                                                       <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+273F>                                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                              <U+272F>                                                   <U+274F>
                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>               P
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                  <U+274B>                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                  <U+2744>                                                       <U+2744>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                  <U+274A>                                                       <U+274A>
                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                              <U+2741>                                               <U+2741>                           P
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                  <U+2745>                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                              <U+274D>                                               <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                  <U+2741>                                                       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                              <U+2731>                                               <U+2748>                                               <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                              <U+2730>                       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                  <U+2749>                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                              <U+25CF>                                               <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                              <U+272F>                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+273C>                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                  <U+273C>               <U+2748>           <U+2748>                                   <U+273C>       <U+2748>   <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                              <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+273B>   <U+273E>           <U+2747>           <U+2747>                                  <U+273B>       <U+2747>   <U+2747>
                                              <U+272D>                                                                               <U+272E>                           <U+272E>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                                                                      37/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                      <U+27A7>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
              <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                  <U+279A>
                                                                                                              <U+27B6>
                                                                                                              <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                              <U+2750>                   <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                              <U+2703>                   <U+279A>
                                                                                          <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                              <U+279A>                   <U+279A>
                                                                                          <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                  <U+2712>                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                          <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2703>
                                                                                                              <U+27B1>                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+270E>                                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                          <U+27AA>                   <U+27AE>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+270E>                                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                              <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                          <U+279A>                                       <U+27B9>
                                                                                                              <U+27B9>
                                                                                          <U+27BD>
                                                                                                              <U+27BC>                   <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+27BE>
                                                                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                  <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2794>
                                                                                                              <U+27AC>                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+27BA>
                                                                                          <U+27BD>                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+27BC>                   <U+279A>                   <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                          <U+27BA>                   <U+27B7>                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                          <U+27BB>                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                              <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                      <U+2770>                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+27BA>                   <U+27B9>                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BA>                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+27B8>                   <U+27B8>                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                          <U+27B3>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                          <U+27B5>                   <U+27B5>                       <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                          <U+27B2>                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                          <U+27AF>                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                      <U+27A6>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                          <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                              <U+2798>                   <U+2752>                       <U+2798>                                                       
                                                                          <U+27AB>
                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A9>               
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>                   <U+2710>                       <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>                           <U+276A>               <U+276A>
                                                                              <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>                   <U+2764>                       <U+2764>
                                                                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                              <U+279F>                                                                                                                                           <U+276D>               <U+2763>           <U+276D>       <U+2763>       <U+276D>               <U+2763>                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2794>       <U+2727>
                                                                                                                              <U+2465>
                                                                              <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>                   <U+2762>                       <U+2762>               <U+2194>       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>                           <U+2771>               <U+2771>                                       <U+272A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2468>
                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                              <U+279E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>                   <U+2761>                       <U+2761>               <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A3>       <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>                           <U+276C>               <U+276C>
                                                                                                                              <U+2460>                                                                                                           <U+275E>                   <U+275E>                       <U+275E>
                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>                           <U+2773>               <U+2773>                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                                                              <U+2463>                                                                                                           <U+275D>                   <U+275D>                       <U+275D>               <U+2192>
                                                                              <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278F>                               <U+2769>                           <U+2769>               <U+2769>
                                                                                                  <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>                   <U+275C>                       <U+275C>
                                                                              <U+279C>                           <U+2782>                   <U+2467>
                                                                                                      <U+2707>                                                                               <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>                                                               <U+275B>                   <U+275B>                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                          <U+2782>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2794>
                                                                              <U+279B>                       <U+2708>                                                                                                                   <U+2768>                           <U+2768>               <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2464>           <U+2780>
                                                                                                                              <U+2466>
                                                                                                          <U+2781>                                                                                                               <U+2773>                           <U+2773>               <U+2773>                               <U+2793>
                                                                              <U+2799>                                                                                                       <U+2780>
                                                                                                          <U+2780>                                                                                                                               <U+2775>                   <U+2775>                       <U+2775>               <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                                                                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                                  <U+2776>                                                                                   <U+2781>                                   <U+2772>                           <U+2772>               <U+2772>
                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                              <U+2799>
                                                                                                                              <U+2464>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2791>
                                                                                                          <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                          P                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2774>                   <U+2774>                       <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>                           <U+2771>               <U+2771>
                                                                                                  <U+2777>                                                                                       <U+2785>
                                                                                                          <U+277E>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2790>
                                                                              <U+2195>                                               <U+2464>                                                       <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>                   <U+276B>                       <U+276B>
                                                                                                          <U+277D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2463>                                                           <U+278E>
                                                                                                          <U+277C>
                                                          <U+25BC>                                                                                                           <U+278C>
                                                                                                          <U+277A>                   <U+2462>
                                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277A>
                                                                                                          <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                          <U+2756>                                               <U+277A>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277A>                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                          <U+2779>                                                           <U+278B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                          <U+25C6>                                       <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                              <U+2460>
                                                                                                                              <U+2708>                                                           <U+278D>                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                              <U+2707>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                      |
                                                                                                                              <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                      <U+275A>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+2734>                                                                                               t
                                                                      <U+2759>
                              <U+2733>
                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2751>
                              <U+2733>
                                                                      |
                  <U+2702>
                              <U+2732>
                  <U+2702>
                                                          <U+274F>           <U+25D7>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                      <U+277B>                                   <U+277B>                                                                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                              <U+277F>                               <U+277F>
                                                                                                                      <U+2781>                                   <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                      <U+277A>                                   <U+277A>
                                                                                  <U+2799>                                                           <U+277E>                               <U+277E>                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                      <U+2780>                       <U+2789>           <U+2780>                   <U+2789>
                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+27A0>                                   <U+277A>                                   <U+277A>                                                                                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                                          <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>                               <U+2789>                                                                                                                               <U+271B>
                                                                                                          <U+2783>
                                                                                                                      <U+277B>                                   <U+277B>                                                                   <U+2666>                           <U+2767>                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                              <U+277E>                               <U+277E>
                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                          <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2779>                               <U+2779>                                                                                           <U+2666>
                                                                                                          <U+2782>           <U+277D>                                   <U+277D>                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                      <U+27A5>                                                       <U+277E>                               <U+277E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2780>                                   <U+2780>
                                                                                                          <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                      <U+277E>                       <U+277F>           <U+277E>                   <U+277F>
                                                                                                          <U+2780>
                                                                                  <U+279D>                                                                                                                                           <U+2665>                           q
                                                                                                                                              <U+2788>                               <U+2788>
                                                                                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2786>                                   <U+2786>                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>                               <U+2785>
                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                          <U+277E>                                                                                                                   <U+2660>                           <U+2767>                   r
                                                                                                                                              <U+2783>                               <U+2783>
                                                                                                                      <U+2783>                                   <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2787>                               <U+2787>
                                                                                      <U+27A2>                                   <U+2785>                                   <U+2785>
                                                                                                                      <U+2782>                                   <U+2782>                                                                   <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>               <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2781>                               <U+2781>
                                                                                  <U+2799>
                                                                                                                          <U+2784>                                   <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>               <U+2766>
                                                                                  <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>                           <U+2660>               <U+2660>
                                                                                      <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                              <U+274A>
                                                  <U+2738>           <U+25CF>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2749>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                                              <U+274B>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                              <U+274A>
                          <U+2711>
                                                              <U+2749>
                          <U+270F>
                                                              <U+2748>
                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                              <U+2743>
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                              <U+2744>
                                                              <U+2746>
                                                              <U+2745>
                                                              <U+2744>
                                                              <U+2743>
                                                              <U+2742>
                                                              <U+2741>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                              <U+2740>
                                  <U+261B>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                              <U+273F>
                                              <U+2730>
                                  <U+270C>
                                              <U+272F>
                                              <U+272E>
                                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+271E>
                                              <U+272D>
                                  <U+270C>
                                              <U+272C>
                                  <U+261E>
                                  <U+261B>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                  38/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                       <U+276B>                                                                               <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2463>
              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2464>
              <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2461>
                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   q
              <U+2721>
                                                                  <U+25CF>                                                                    <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+277B>   r
                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+277A>   <U+2708>
                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2779>
                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2460>
                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2769>                                           <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2468>
                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2469>
                                                                  <U+2751>                                                                                                        <U+275E>                   <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                   |                                                           <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+278C>           <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2783>   <U+2462>
                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2771>           <U+2793>           <U+275B>               <U+2782>                   <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2792>
                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2772>                       <U+275B>                                   <U+2710>
                                                                  <U+274D>                                                                                                                            <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277F>   <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2769>
                                                                  <U+25CF>                                                                                                        <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2790>                                               <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+278F>                                   <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2771>                           <U+278E>                           <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2774>                   <U+2467>
                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2773>           <U+278D>                                   <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2781>       <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                   <U+276A>                           <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                           |                   <U+2466>
                                                                  <U+274A>                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                  <U+2749>                                                                                                                        <U+277F>   <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+278A>           <U+275D>                       s
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2771>                                       <U+277F>
                                                      <U+2747>                                                                                                                                        <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>               <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2789>                               <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   q
                                                      <U+2746>                                                                                            <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2763>       <U+2788>                           <U+277D>   <U+2462>   <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+276F>                       <U+2775>
                                                      <U+2745>                                                                            <U+276F>
                                                                                                                       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2787>                                   <U+2660>
                                  <U+2740>                                                                                    P                               <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+275E>               <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+275A>           <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                   <U+275A>
                                                      <U+2744>                                                                                                        <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2660>
                                                                                                                       <U+2756>                                       <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2759>       <U+2773>               |
                                                                      <U+25C6>                                                            |
                                                      <U+2743>
                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2767>
                                                                                                                       <U+2742>                           |
                                                                                                                                   <U+2773>
                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                       <U+2745>                                                                                           <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272F>
                                          <U+2710>
                                          <U+27A5>                                                                                
                                          <U+279E>                                                                                <U+27AF>
                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                           <U+27AF>
                                          <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                           <U+27A7>
                                          <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27AF>
                                          <U+279F>                                                                                <U+27B8>
                                          <U+279E>                                                                                                                                        <U+27B5>
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A7>
                                                                                                       <U+27AF>                   <U+27B5>
                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27BB>                   <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272D>
                                                                                                                           <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27BB>
                                          <U+279D>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272E>
                                                                                                       <U+27AF>                                                                                                           <U+272B>
                                                                                                               <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                           <U+27BA>                                       <U+27B5>               <U+27AB>
                                                                                                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27BC>                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                               <U+27AF>           <U+27A9>                                                       <U+27A6>
                          <U+2733>                                                                                <U+27B9>                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                          <U+2739>                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2726>
                                                                                                               <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                               <U+27BD>                                                       
                                                                                                       <U+27B5>                                                           <U+27AD>
                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                                                                                                               <U+27BA>
                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                               <U+27AA>
                                                                                                       <U+27A9>                                                           <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                   <U+27BD>
                  <U+2706>       <U+2736>                                                                                                <U+27A7>                                       <U+27BA>
                                                                                                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                           
                          <U+2734>                                                                                    <U+27B2>
                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                <U+27A8>
                                                                                                           <U+279A>
                                                                                                                           <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27BB>
                          <U+2735>                                                                            <U+27B5>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                               <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                   <U+27BC>                                               <U+27B2>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                       <U+27BB>
                  <U+2701>       <U+2734>                                                                                                <U+27B5>
                                                                                                               <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27B3>               <U+27AF>
                                                                                                       <U+27BB>
                          <U+2733>                                                                                                   <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A7>                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                       <U+27B5>                                                               <U+27BD>                                           <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272B>
                          <U+2732>                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27BB>
                                                                                                       <U+27A9>                                                               <U+27BC>                                           <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27BB>                               <U+2727>
                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                       <U+27A8>                                                                                                           <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                           <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                           <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27AD>
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                               <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A8>
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                               <U+27AF>                                                                   <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                           <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                               <U+27A9>                                                                   <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                           <U+27AF>
                                                                                                               <U+27A8>                                                                   <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                           <U+27AF>
                                                                                      <U+27AE>                                    <U+27A7>
                                                                                                               <U+27B2>                                                                      <U+27B6>
                                                                                      <U+276E>                                    <U+27BB>
                                                                                                               <U+27B5>                                                                   <U+27A8>
                                                                                      <U+2752>                                                    <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                           <U+27BB>
                                                                                                               <U+27B2>                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                      <U+2750>                                                                                            <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                           <U+27A8>                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                                      <U+2703>                                   <U+27B5>                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                                      <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                           <U+27BA>
                                                                                                               <U+27A9>               <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                                                      <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                           <U+27A6>
                                                                                      <U+27AC>                        <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                           <U+27AD>
                                                                                      <U+27B7>                        <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                           <U+27B3>
                                                                                      <U+27B4>                                    <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                   <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                           <U+27B3>
                                                                                                               <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                           <U+27A8>
                                                                                      <U+2798>
                                                                                                               <U+27A9>           <U+27B2>                   <U+27BD>
                                                                                      <U+27BE>
                                                                                              
                                                                                                               <U+27B2>           <U+27A7>                   <U+27BC>
                                                                                              <U+27AC>
                                                                                              
                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                                                              <U+2798>
                                                                                  <U+27AD>
                                                                                              
                                                                                  <U+27A9>
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                              <U+2770>
                                                                                                   
                                                                                  <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+277C>
                                                                          <U+27AF>                                                                                                                                        <U+2730>
                                                          <U+27AF>                           <U+27BC>                                                                                                                           <U+2718>
                                                                                                               
                                                                          <U+27BB>                                                                                                                                        <U+2730>
                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                          <U+27A8>                                                                                                                                                       <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                  <U+27A7>
                                                          <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+279C>
                                                                              <U+279A>                                <U+27AF>
                                                                                  <U+27A7>
                                                  <U+27AF>       <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27A3>
                                                          <U+27AB>                               <U+27AF>
                                                                          <U+27A8>                                    <U+27A7>
                                                                                  <U+27A8>                                                        <U+27AF>
                                                  <U+27A8>                                                                                       
                                                          <U+27BA>                                                                                                                    <U+2194>
                                                                          <U+27BB>                                    <U+27BA>
                                                                                              <U+27AA>
                                                  <U+27BB>                                   <U+27BC>
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                               <U+27BB>                           <U+27AF>
                                                                                          <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+279B>
                                                  <U+27BA>       <U+27B8>                                                    <U+27AB>
                                                                              <U+27BE>       <U+27BC>                                    
                                                  <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                               <U+27B9>
                                                                                              <U+27B9>                <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                           
                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                  <U+27BA>                               <U+27B5>
                                                                              <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27A3>
                                                                                                   
                                                                          <U+27AB>                                                                    <U+27BE>
                                                                                              <U+27BE>
                                                          <U+27B5>                                                    <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                           <U+27AF>               <U+27AB>
                                              <U+27AF>                                                                                                                                <U+2799>
                                                  <U+27B8>                               <U+27A8>
                                                                          <U+27A7>
                                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                           <U+27BB>
                                                          <U+27AD>                                                    <U+27B5>                           <U+27BA>
                              <U+2716>                                                                    
                                              <U+27AD>                                                                                                                                <U+2195>
                                                  <U+27A9>                                   <U+27BE>   <U+27BB>
                                                                          <U+27A7>
                                              <U+27AB>
                                                                                  <U+27AB>                                       <U+27B5>
                                                              <U+27BE>           <U+27AB>                                    <U+27A9>                           <U+27A8>
                              <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                <U+2194>
                                                  <U+27B5>
                                                                                          <U+27BA>
                                                                                      <U+27AA>                                   <U+27A6>                   
                                                                                                               <U+27A8>
                                              <U+27A9>               <U+27BD>           <U+27B3>                                                                                                    <U+2194>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                   
                              <U+2715>                   <U+27B3>                                           <U+27B6>
                                                                                      <U+27BC>                                        <U+27BE>           <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                   <U+27BE>                                                           <U+27A3>
                                              <U+27A8>   <U+27AB>           <U+27BC>           <U+27A9>               <U+27AB>        
                              <U+2714>
                                                                                  <U+27B5>                                        <U+27B5>               <U+27B5>
                                                                                                               <U+27A8>
                                              <U+27A7>   <U+27A9>       <U+27A8>               <U+27A8>                   <U+27AA>
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2192>
                                              <U+27A6>   <U+27B2>       <U+27A7>               <U+27B2>       <U+27B3>       <U+27A7>                        <U+27B9>       <U+27B3>               <U+27B3>
                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                   
                              <U+2712>
                              <U+2711>
                              <U+270F>
                              <U+270E>
                              <U+270D>
                              <U+270C>
                      <U+2720>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>

                                   39/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+2715><U+2717><U+2718><U+2717>                 <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716>             <U+2737><U+2738><U+2739>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2723>                                <U+2724><U+2725> <U+2726> <U+2724><U+2727> <U+2726> <U+2605><U+2724><U+2729><U+272A>
<removed-apn>
                <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E>
                                                                       <U+2765><U+2766><U+2767>
                <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742> <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747>                               <U+274B><U+25CF><U+25CF>
                <U+2740><U+2748><U+2741><U+2742><U+2742><U+2746><U+2749> <U+273F><U+2746><U+2749><U+2746><U+2740><U+274A><U+2747>
                  <U+2756><U+25C6>P<U+25D7>|
                  <U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC> <U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+2751><U+25BC><U+25C6>
                                        <U+2765><U+2766><U+2765>
                           <U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275B><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763> <U+2774><U+2764><U+2762><U+2761><U+2710>
                    <U+2759><U+275A><U+272C><U+276F><U+275A> <U+2771><U+272F><U+272E><U+2772><U+276F><U+2773><U+2768><U+272D><U+2769>               <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730>
                                      <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B>
                                                                 <U+270F>
                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E>      <U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D>        <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>     <U+2721><U+2702><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>         <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+2704><U+2701>
                               <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734> <U+2735><U+2736>

                                                                          40/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                              s
              <U+270E>
              <U+270D>
              <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                              <U+273B>                               <U+2768>                           <U+2774>
                                                  <U+2748>                                                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                                                  <U+274B>                       P
                                                                      <U+274A>           <U+274A>
                                                  <U+273A>                                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                  <U+273A>           <U+273A>                               <U+273A>                       <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2748>                                                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                      <U+274B>                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+274A>                           <U+2773>
                                                                      P           P                           <U+2738>                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                          q
                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                  <U+2743>           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                          <U+2734>                           <U+2743>                       <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                      <U+274D>           <U+274D>
                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                          <U+25CF>                   <U+273E>
                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                      <U+25D7>       <U+273E>
                                              <U+2743>       <U+2731>                                                                                                   <U+2743>
                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                          <U+25CF>                           <U+25CF>
                                          <U+2747>
                                              <U+273E>                   <U+273D>           <U+273D>                       <U+2759>                       <U+2759>                           <U+273E>
                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                          <U+2735>               <U+25BC>
                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                          <U+272E>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                      <U+2722>
                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                          q
                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                      <U+2724>
                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                  <U+2741>           <U+2771>
                                                                                                                          <U+2749>                                               <U+2710>
                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                          q
                                          <U+2746>
                                      <U+2723>
                                                                      <U+274D>       <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                          <U+2737>           <U+2737>
                                                                                                          <U+276C>                           <U+274D>
                                                      <U+2737>                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                  <U+273F>           <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                      <U+2722>
                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                          <U+2769>                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                              <U+273E>
                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                      <U+273E>                       <U+273E>
                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                  <U+273E>           <U+273E>
                                          <U+2744>                              <U+276F>                   <U+25C6>                       <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                      <U+273E>                       <U+273E>
                                      <U+271B>
                                              <U+273E>                   <U+273D>           <U+273D>                       <U+2759>                       <U+2759>                           <U+273E>
                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+2719>   <U+271B>
                                  <U+2717>
                  <U+271F>
                                      <U+271A>
                                  <U+2718>
                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+2717>
                  <U+271D>
                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+2716>
                  <U+260E>
                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                  <U+273C>                   <U+274B>
                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                      <U+273B>
                                      <U+2726>
                                                  <U+273B>                   <U+274A>
                                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                  <U+273A>               <U+273A>
                                                                                                              <U+2738>                           P               <U+273C>
                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                  P
                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                          P
                                                  <U+2738>               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                          <U+272C>
                                                              <U+2749>
                                          <U+2734>                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                          <U+2733>
                                                      <U+2732>                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                          <U+2732>           <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                              <U+2743>                   <U+2743>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                          <U+2731>           <U+2731>
                                                                              <U+2743>                                                                           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2742>                       <U+274D>
                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                              <U+275A>                                                       <U+2769>                       <U+274D>
                                          <U+2730>           <U+2730>
                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                              <U+273E>                   <U+273E>                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                  <U+274D>                                               <U+273E>                           <U+274D>
                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                              <U+273D>                   <U+273D>           <U+2759>           <U+2734>           <U+273E>                           <U+2759>                       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                          <U+272E>
                                          <U+272C>           <U+272C>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                              <U+2715>
                                          <U+272F>           <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+2730>                                                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                          <U+272E>           <U+272E>
                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                          <U+2734>                                                                   <U+2734>
                                              <U+2741>                   <U+2741>
                                          <U+272D>           <U+272D>
                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                          <U+272E>                                                                   <U+272E>
                              <U+2712>
                                              <U+2740>                       <U+25CF>
                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                          <U+272C>           <U+272C>                                                               <U+276A>
                                              <U+273F>                   <U+273F>
                                                                          <U+2735>                                                                   <U+2735>
                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                              <U+273E>                   <U+273E>
                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                          <U+272B>           <U+272B>
                                                                          <U+2731>                                                                   <U+2731>
                                              <U+273E>                   <U+273E>
                              <U+2712>
                                          <U+272A>           <U+272A>                   |                       <U+2772>                   <U+276D>                       |
                                                                                  <U+25D7>                                                   <U+25CF>                   <U+2742>
                                              <U+273D>                   <U+273D>           <U+2759>                       <U+273E>                           <U+2759>                       <U+2759>
                              <U+2711>
                              <U+270F>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                          <U+271F>
                      <U+2721>

                                                                      41/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2730>
              <U+270E>
              <U+270D>
              <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2747>
                                                  <U+2762>
                                                  <U+2743>
                                                  <U+2763>
                                                  <U+2751>
                                                      <U+2774>       <U+2773>                                       <U+2773>                               <U+2772>   <U+2774>
                                                          <U+275E>               <U+2778>               <U+277A>       <U+2778>                   <U+277A>           <U+2778>
                                                  <U+274A>
                                                      <U+2774>       <U+2773>       <U+2772>                       <U+2772>                   <U+2774>           <U+2774>       <U+2773>   <U+2773>
                                                          <U+2761>                       <U+276A>                   <U+275E>
                                                  <U+2743>
                                                      <U+276B>   <U+276B>   <U+276B>       <U+276B>           <U+276B>           <U+276B>       <U+276B>           <U+276B>           <U+276B>       <U+276B>   <U+276B>
                                          P
                                                  <U+2749>
                                          <U+2756>
                                                      <U+2772>   <U+2772>           <U+2774>           <U+2773>           <U+2773>       <U+2773>                       <U+2773>           <U+2773>
                                                                  <U+2778>                                               <U+2761>                   <U+2761>
                                          <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2747>
                                                  <U+2744>
                                          <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+2772>   <U+2772>       <U+2772>           <U+2772>           <U+2772>       <U+2772>           <U+2772>           <U+2772>       <U+2772>
                                                      <U+275E>                                                                                   <U+2761>
                                      <U+2741>
                                          <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2748>
                                      <U+2740>
                                      <U+273D>
                                                  <U+2762>
                                                  <U+274A>
                                      <U+273F>
                                                  <U+275C>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                      <U+273B>
                                      <U+273A>
                                          <U+275A>
                                          <U+25BC>
                                      <U+2739>
                                          <U+2759>
                                          |
                                      <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2747>
                                          <U+2756>
                                          <U+25D7>
                                                  <U+2762>
                                                  <U+2743>
                                                  <U+2763>
                                                          <U+2772>                                                                               <U+2772>
                                                      <U+2761>       <U+2761>           <U+277A>       <U+276A>           <U+275E>               <U+2778>   <U+2761>               <U+2777>   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                              <U+2772>       <U+2772>                                           <U+2773>
                                                      <U+2761>   <U+2761>                       <U+2761>           <U+275E>       <U+275E>                       <U+2761>       <U+2761>   <U+276A>
                                                  <U+2749>
                                          <U+275A>
                                                      <U+276B>   <U+276B>   <U+276B>       <U+276B>           <U+276B>           <U+276B>       <U+276B>           <U+276B>           <U+276B>       <U+276B>   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272F>
                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                  <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                      <U+2772>   <U+2772>                                   <U+2772>       <U+2774>           <U+2772>           <U+2774>       <U+2772>   <U+2774>
                                                              <U+276D>       <U+276A>           <U+2761>
                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                          <U+2771>
                                                          <U+2772>   <U+2772>       <U+2772>           <U+2772>           <U+2772>       <U+2772>           <U+2772>           <U+2772>       <U+2772>
                                                      <U+275E>                                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                          <U+276F>
                                                  <U+2762>
                                                  <U+274A>
                                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                      <U+275B>       <U+275B>               <U+275B>                       <U+275B>                   <U+275B>
                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+2719>
                                                      <U+2775>       <U+2775>               <U+2775>                       <U+2775>                   <U+2775>
                                  <U+2717>
                  <U+271F>
                                                  <U+275D>
                                                      <U+276A>       <U+276D>               <U+2761>                           <U+2777>               <U+275E>
                                  <U+2718>
                                              r
                  <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2747>
                                                      <U+2774>                       <U+2773>                       <U+2773>
                                                              <U+276A>                                                           <U+275E>
                                              <U+2766>
                                  <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2749>
                                                      <U+276B>       <U+276B>               <U+276B>                       <U+276B>                   <U+276B>
                  <U+271D>
                  <U+2706>
                                              <U+2710>
                                                  <U+2769>
                                                              <U+2774>               <U+2774>                       <U+2774>                   <U+2774>
                                                      <U+276A>
                                  <U+2716>
                  <U+260E>
                                              r
                                                  <U+2747>
                                                      <U+2772>       <U+2772>               <U+2772>                       <U+2772>                   <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                              <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                      <U+276D>       <U+276D>               <U+276D>                       <U+276D>                   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                              <U+2710>
                                                      <U+2772>       <U+2772>               <U+2772>                       <U+2772>                   <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                      <U+276C>       <U+276C>               <U+276C>                       <U+276C>                   <U+276C>
                                              <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                              <U+2666>
                                                      <U+2773>       <U+2773>               <U+2773>                       <U+2773>                   <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                      <U+2772>       <U+2772>               <U+2772>                       <U+2772>                   <U+2772>
                                              s
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                              <U+2767>
                                              <U+2660>
                                              <U+2660>
                                              <U+2767>
                                              <U+2468>
                                              <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                              <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                              <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                              <U+2464>
                                                          <U+277E>           <U+277E>                       <U+277E>                   <U+277E>                   <U+277E>
                                              <U+2462>
                                                      <U+2773>                                               <U+2773>
                                                                  <U+2777>                                                           <U+275E>
                                                                                          <U+2777>
                                                  <U+2751>
                                                          <U+274A>           <U+274A>                       <U+274A>                   <U+274A>                   <U+274A>
                                              <U+2463>
                                                      <U+2772>       <U+2772>                                       <U+2772>                       <U+2772>
                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                  <U+274A>
                                                          <U+2751>           <U+2751>                       <U+2751>                   <U+2751>                   <U+2751>
                                                  <U+2743>
                                              <U+2460>
                                                      <U+2773>       <U+2772>                                       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                  <U+276D>
                                              <U+2462>
                                                          <U+277D>           <U+277D>                       <U+277D>                   <U+277D>                   <U+277D>
                                                      <U+2772>       <U+2772>                                       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2769>                               <U+2761>
                                              <U+2461>
                                                      <U+2773>       <U+2773>                                       <U+2773>                       <U+2774>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                          <U+2751>           <U+2751>                       <U+2751>                   <U+2751>                   <U+2751>
                                              <U+2460>
                                                      <U+2772>       <U+2772>                                       <U+2772>                       <U+2772>
                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                          <U+277C>           <U+277C>                       <U+277C>                   <U+277C>                   <U+277C>
                                                  <U+2768>
                                              <U+2765>                                   <U+2773>
                                                          <U+274A>           <U+274A>                       <U+274A>                   <U+274A>                   <U+274A>
                                                                                                                           
                                                          <U+277B>           <U+277B>                       <U+277B>                   <U+277B>                   <U+277B>
                                              t
                                              <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                              <U+2710>
                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                              <U+2660>
                                              <U+2708>
                                              <U+2709>
                                              t
                                              s
                                                      <U+2744>       <U+2744>
                                                      <U+2744>       <U+2744>
                                              r
                                              <U+2660>
                                                      <U+274D>       <U+274D>
                                              <U+2660>
                                                                              <U+2749>                       <U+2749>                       <U+2749>
                                                      <U+25CF>       <U+25CF>
                                                                              <U+2744>                       <U+2744>                       <U+2744>
                                              <U+2767>
                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                              <U+2743>                       <U+2743>                       <U+2743>
                                                      <U+274B>       <U+274B>
                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                              <U+2763>                       <U+2763>                       <U+2763>
                                              q
                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                      <U+274A>       <U+274A>
                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                              <U+2744>                       <U+2744>                       <U+2744>
                                                      <U+2749>       <U+2749>
                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                  <U+2748>
                                              <U+2666>                               <U+2769>                       <U+2769>                       <U+2769>
                              <U+2715>
                                                  <U+2743>   <U+2748>       <U+2748>
                                                                              <U+274B>                       <U+274B>                       <U+274B>
                                                  <U+274B>                                                                                       <U+2769>
                                              <U+2665>
                                                      <U+2747>       <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                              <U+2747>                       <U+2747>                       <U+2747>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                              <U+2660>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                              <U+2751>                       <U+2751>                       <U+2751>
                              <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                              <U+2747>                       <U+2747>                       <U+2747>
                                              <U+2766>
                              <U+2714>
                                                      <U+2745>       <U+2745>
                                              <U+2710>
                                                  
                                                                                      <U+2779>                       <U+2779>                   <U+2779>
                                                      <U+2744>       <U+2744>
                                                      <U+2744>       <U+2744>
                              <U+2713>
                                              <U+2765>
                                                      <U+2743>       <U+2743>
                                              <U+2710>
                              <U+2712>
                                                      <U+2742>       <U+2742>
                                              <U+2764>
                              <U+2711>
                              <U+270F>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                          <U+271F>
                      <U+2721>

                                                                                                                                  42/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276D>
                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276A>
                                          <U+273A>
                                          <U+2734>                                                                                                                       <U+2742>
                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2742>
                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>
                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                          <U+2734>
                                      <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>                       <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                      t
                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273E>
                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>           <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                      t
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                      r
                                                                                                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                      q
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2773>
                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>               <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>                                                                       <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273E>
                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                                  <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2775>
                                                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                      <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                      <U+274A>                                                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                              <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                          <U+2748>
                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                      <U+2464>
                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                          <U+274B>                                                                                       <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                              <U+2738>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                              <U+2737>
                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                      <U+2465>
                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                      <U+2465>
                                                                                      <U+2463>                           <U+2747>
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+2736>
                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                             
                              <U+2734>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+2735>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                              <U+2734>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                              |
                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                              <U+2777>
                                                          <U+2462>                   <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                              <U+2467>
                                                                              <U+2789>                                                   <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                              <U+2469>
                                                                              <U+27A3>                           <U+27B3>
                                                                              <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B5>
                                              <U+2776>
                                                                                                          <U+27BC>
                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                                          <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                          <U+2756>                       <U+27B3>
                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>                               <U+27AB>
                                                                              <U+2794>                                                                   <U+276F>                               <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                          <U+273F>
                                              <U+2469>
                                                                                                          <U+27BA>                       <U+27B2>               <U+27AB>                           <U+2751>   <U+27AB>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                              <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                              <U+2793>                                                                                               <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                              <U+2467>
                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                              <U+2792>
                                              <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                              <U+2791>
                                                                                                          <U+276F>                                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                              <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                          |
                                                                              <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>               <U+25BC>
                                                                              <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                          <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>               <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B8>
                                                                                                          <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                              <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>                       <U+27AB>       <U+27AB>
                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>                       <U+276F>       <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                          <U+27BD>                       <U+27B2>               <U+27AB>           <U+2751>           <U+27AB>   <U+2751>   <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                              <U+278E>
                                                                              <U+2786>
                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                              <U+278D>
                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                              <U+2785>
                                                                                          <U+279D>           <U+279D>
                                                                              <U+278B>
                                                                                          <U+27A2>           <U+27A2>
                                                                              <U+2786>
                                                      <U+277D>
                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                                          <U+27A1>           <U+27A1>
                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277B>
                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277E>
                                                      <U+2780>
                                                                                          <U+2799>           <U+2799>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AA>
                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                              <U+2788>           <U+279E>           <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2781>
                                                      <U+277E>
                                                                              <U+2787>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                      <U+277D>
                                                                                          <U+27A0>           <U+27A0>                                                                                                   <U+277F>
                                                      <U+277D>
                                                                              <U+2786>                                               <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2781>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A9>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+279F>           <U+279F>
                                                      <U+277C>
                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                              <U+27A6>                                       <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2798>
                                                                              <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+279A>
                                  <U+270F>                   <U+277B>
                                                                  <U+2784>                       <U+2195>           <U+2195>                   <U+27A1>
                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                              <U+27A5>                       <U+27A5>               <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277D>
                                                      <U+277A>
                                                                                          <U+2799>           <U+2799>                   <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277A>
                                                      <U+277A>                                                                                                                                               <U+27B9>
                                                                  <U+2783>                           <U+27A8>                                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                      <U+27A7>
                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2779>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                          <U+279E>           <U+279E>                   <U+279E>
                                                                  <U+2782>                                                                   <U+27A8>                                                               <U+27B6>
                                                                                              <U+27A7>                       <U+27A5>
                                                  <U+2768>   <U+2778>                                   <U+279D>           <U+279D>                   <U+279D>                                                                                   <U+27BE>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+27A6>                       <U+27A6>               <U+27A6>
                                                                                          <U+279C>           <U+279C>                   <U+279C>
                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                          <U+279B>           <U+279B>                   <U+279B>
                                                                                              <U+27A5>                       <U+27A5>               <U+27A5>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+2799>           <U+2799>                   <U+2799>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+2195>   <U+27A4>       <U+2195>               <U+27A4>   <U+2195>           <U+27A4>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>
                          <U+260E>
                      <U+271D>

                                                                                                                              43/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                      <U+2729>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2469>
                                                                              <U+273C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
              <U+2720>                                                               <U+2739>                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                  <U+2745>               <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2462>
              <U+271F>                                                               <U+273C>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                  <U+273C>               <U+2741>               <U+2737>                                                                                                               <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
              <U+271F>                                                               <U+2739>
                                                                                                  <U+2739>               <U+273F>                   <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2779>           <U+2663>
                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                              <U+2739>                                                       <U+2749>                                   <U+2772>
                                                  <U+277A>                                               <U+273C>                   <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2778>           t
                                                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                  <U+2739>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2767>
                                                  <U+277A>                           <U+2733>                                                                                           <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2748>                                                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                              <U+273A>                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                  <U+273B>                                                                                                                                               <U+2776>
                                                  <U+277A>                                                               <U+2742>                                                           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>                                                                                                               <U+2466>
                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                  <U+273C>               <U+2741>                                                                                                               <U+2467>
                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2469>
                                                                                                                  <U+2739>                   <U+2747>
                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>                                                                                                       <U+2710>
                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                  <U+2744>                                                                                                                                               <U+2460>
                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                  <U+2737>               <U+2744>
                                                                              <U+2736>                       <U+2791>                                   <U+2791>                                   <U+2756>                                                                                                       <U+2764>
                                                                                                  <U+2732>                               <U+2737>                                                                                                               <U+2468>
                                                                                                                      <U+274A>
                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+2740>   <U+2790>                                   <U+2790>                                   P                                                                                                       <U+2763>
                                                                              <U+2735>                                       <U+2749>                                                                                                                           <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2793>                                                                                                               <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                                                              <U+2732>                                   <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                      <U+278F>                                   <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2792>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2762>
                                                                                                  <U+2743>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                      <U+2748>                                               <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                                              <U+2734>                       <U+278E>                                   <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>                                                                               t
                                                                                                  <U+273F>   <U+278D>                           <U+2734>       <U+278D>
                                                          <U+2770>                                                           <U+2747>                                                                                                                                       s
                                      <U+2605>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                  <U+2741>   <U+278C>                                   <U+278C>                                                                                                       <U+2464>
                                                                              <U+2733>                                                                                                                           <U+2773>                                                   r
                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                          <U+276E>
                                                                              <U+2732>                       <U+2788>                                   <U+2788>                                                                                                       <U+2463>
                                                                                                  <U+2742>                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                  <U+2741>                                                   <U+276F>                                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>                                                                                                                           q
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>                                           <U+276A>
                                                                          <U+2730>                                                       <U+2737>                                                                                                               <U+2462>
                                                                                                      <U+278B>                                   <U+278B>                                                                   <U+275B>           <U+276D>
                                                      <U+277A>                                                                               <U+274B>                                                                                                                       <U+2663>
                                                                              <U+2731>                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>                                   <U+276C>               <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                      <U+2788>                           <U+273B>       <U+2788>                                                                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+272F>                                                                                                   <U+25C6>
                                                                                                  <U+2740>   <U+278A>                                   <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>       <U+2773>               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>                                                                                                               <U+2460>           <U+2665>
                                                                                                  <U+273F>   <U+2789>                                   <U+2789>                                                       <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                          <U+272E>                                                                                           <U+25C6>                                       <U+2775>           <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                  <U+273E>   <U+2788>                           <U+2742>       <U+2788>
                                      <U+2605>                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>                   <U+275D>       <U+2773>               <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>                                               <U+25D7>       <U+2774>               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                  <U+273D>                                       <U+25CF>                                           <U+2751>
                                                                          <U+272C>
                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>                       <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272E>                                                                                                                                       <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                          <U+27B8>                                   <U+27B5>                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                      <U+27AC>                                   <U+27BB>                                       <U+27AE>                                           <U+27AE>                                                                      <U+27AC>
                                                                      <U+27BA>                                   <U+27BA>                                   <U+27BA>                                           <U+27BA>                                               <U+27BA>                           <U+27BA>
                                                                      <U+27AC>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27AC>
                                                                                                              <U+2752>                               <U+27B8>                                               <U+27AE>                                               <U+27AE>
                                                                                                          <U+27B5>                                   <U+27B5>                                           <U+27B5>                                               <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>               <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                  <U+260E>               <U+2787>                                                                                                                       <U+27A2>
                                                                                                          <U+277A>                   <U+27AF>               <U+27B9>                                   <U+27B9>                                               <U+27B9>
                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AB>
                                                                                      <U+27A4>                                                                                             <U+276E>                                                   
                                                                                                                              <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                  <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                          <U+279A>                                   <U+279A>                                   <U+277A>                                               <U+27BD>
                                                                  <U+27B9>                   <U+27A8>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27B9>
                                  <U+2785>                                                                                           |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2747>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+27BD>                                       <U+27BC>                                   <U+27BC>                                   <U+27BC>                                               <U+27BC>                                   <U+27BD>
                                                              <U+27AF>                                                               <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                  <U+2784>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                              <U+27A8>                                                                                           <U+27A4>                                                                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                          <U+2750>                                   <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                              <U+27AB>                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                                                              <U+2770>                                   <U+2770>                                   <U+276E>                                                   <U+276E>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A2>                           <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>                                       <U+2713>
                                                              <U+27B7>
                                                                                                              <U+2703>                               <U+279A>                                   <U+279A>                                               <U+27BD>                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                              <U+27B3>                           <U+27B3>                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+27B3>                   <U+27BE>                                   <U+27BE>                                                                                  <U+27BE>                   <U+27A2>
                                                              <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B2>                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                              <U+276E>               <U+27A2>               <U+27BD>                                   <U+27BD>                                               <U+27BD>
                                                                                      <U+27A5>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>                                                                                           <U+27AB>
                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                          <U+27BD>                                   <U+27BD>                                   <U+27BD>                                               <U+27BD>
                                                              <U+2798>                                                              <U+276F>                                   <U+25C6>                                               <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                  <U+27BD>                                       <U+27BC>                                   <U+27BC>                                   <U+27BC>                                               <U+27BC>                                   <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>
                                              <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+277B>
                                              <U+2195>
                                                                      <U+27BB>                                   <U+27B8>
                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                      <U+27B5>                                       <U+27AE>
                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                      <U+27BA>                                   <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B5>                                                   <U+27AE>                           
                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                                      <U+27B8>                                       <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AE>
                                              <U+2794>
                                                                      <U+27B5>                                   <U+27B5>
                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                              <U+27A8>
                                              <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                              <U+27B2>                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                                                              <U+27AF>                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271C>
                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B2>
                                              <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                              <U+27A2>                               <U+2749>
                                                              <U+27AD>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27AF>
                                              <U+279D>
                                                              <U+27AB>                       <U+27A9>                                                                                                                                                               <U+27B3>
                                              <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>
                                              <U+279C>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>
                                              <U+279B>               <U+27A9>                       <U+27A9>
                                                                  <U+27B9>                                       <U+27B9>                                                                                                                           <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                              <U+27A8>                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27B9>                                                                                                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B9>
                                              <U+2195>
                                                                  <U+27B6>                                           <U+2703>                                                                                                                       <U+279A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                              <U+27AA>                                                                   <U+27A7>                                                      <U+276E>
                                                              <U+27A7>                       <U+27A7>                                       <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                  <U+279A>                                       <U+279A>                                                   <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+276E>           <U+27AD>                                                                       <U+27BD>                                   <U+276E>
                                                                  <U+27BC>                                       <U+27BC>                                                  <U+27AD>                   <U+27BD>                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                              <U+27A2>                       <U+27A2>                                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                              <U+2783>
                                                              <U+27A6>                       <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A7>                                                                                                                       <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                              <U+277F>                                                                                                                               <U+27A7>
                                                              <U+27A5>                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>                                                                                                                       <U+27AD>
                                                                  <U+27AA>                                           <U+27B1>
                                                              <U+27A4>                       <U+27A4>
                              <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                  <U+279A>                                       <U+27BD>                   <U+27A5>                                                                                                                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B2>
                                                              <U+27A2>   <U+27BE>                   <U+27A2>                   <U+27BE>
                              <U+2782>                                                                                               <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                                                              <U+27A1>   <U+27BD>                   <U+27A1>                   <U+27BD>                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>                                                                                                                       <U+27A8>
                              <U+2781>
                                                                  <U+27BD>                                       <U+27BD>
                                                              <U+27A0>                       <U+27A0>                                       |
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B1>               <U+2772>                                               <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279A>               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                              <U+2780>
                                                                  <U+27BC>                                       <U+27BC>                                                                      <U+27BD>                                                                              
                              <U+277F>
                              <U+277E>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+271D>
                          <U+2704>
                      <U+2706>

                                                                                                                                  44/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2774>
                                      <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
              <U+270E>
              <U+270D>
              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                      <U+2715>                                                                                   <U+2463>
                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                              <U+2767>                                                           <U+2776>                                   <U+2776>
                                                                      <U+2722>                           <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                  <U+275D>                                                                                       <U+2766>                                   <U+2766>
                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                      <U+271C>                                                                                   <U+2461>
                                                                          <U+2468>                       <U+277A>               <U+2468>                   q                       <U+2468>                           <U+2763>                                   <U+2763>           <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2777>
                                                  <U+2748>                                                                           <U+2765>                                                           <U+2710>                                   <U+2710>
                                                                              <U+2666>   <U+2707>               <U+275E>                   <U+2666>   <U+2707>           <U+2666>   <U+2707>               <U+2464>       <U+2666>   <U+2707>                                                   <U+2707>               <U+2666>           <U+2707>
                                                                                                                              <U+2710>                                                           <U+2710>           <U+2666>                       <U+2710>
                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2744>                       <U+2778>   <U+2708>                                   <U+2666>   <U+2708>           <U+2666>   <U+2708>                   <U+2468>       <U+2708>                                                   <U+2708>           <U+2777>               <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                      <U+2462>                                                                                       <U+2462>                                   <U+2462>
                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                                              <U+2666>   <U+2709>               <U+2766>                   <U+2666>   <U+2709>           <U+2666>   <U+2709>                   <U+2468>       <U+2709>                                                   <U+2709>               <U+2778>           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                  t                                       t               t                           t                                                   t                           t
                                                  <U+273C>                   <U+271B>                                                       <U+2763>
                                                                                  s                                       s               s                           s                   <U+275C>                               s   <U+275C>                       s
                                                                          <U+2467>                                           <U+2663>               <U+2663>                       <U+2467>                                                                       <U+2467>
                                                                                                  <U+2763>                                                                                                   <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                      <U+2716>       <U+2666>   r                                   <U+2666>   r           <U+2666>   r                       <U+2666>   r                                                   r               <U+2666>           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                              <U+2762>                           <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2469>                                   <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                              <U+2665>                                       <U+2665>               <U+2665>                           <U+2665>                                                                       <U+2665>
                                                                      <U+271A>                           <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                      <U+270F>
                                                                      <U+2719>                                                       <U+2761>                                                           <U+2765>                                   <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                  <U+2779>                           <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2465>                                   <U+2465>
                                                                      <U+2718>                                                       <U+275E>
                                                                                                                              <U+275D>                           <U+2461>
                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                      <U+2716>
                                      <U+270F>
                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                      <U+2714>
                                          <U+2712>
                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                          <U+2738>                                   <U+2737>                                                                   <U+274B>                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                  <U+2740>                                           <U+2741>                                   <U+2741>                                                                   <U+2742>                                               <U+2745>               <U+2740>
                                                                  <U+2736>                                       <U+2736>                                   <U+2736>                                                                   <U+2736>                                               <U+2736>                   <U+2736>
                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                              <U+2742>                                   <U+2741>                                                               <U+274A>                                                   <U+2742>
                                                                                                              <U+2745>                                   <U+2745>                                                               <U+2734>                                               <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                          <U+273F>                       <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>                                                                       <U+273F>                                               <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AB>
                                                                                                              <U+2744>                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                  <U+2786>
                  <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2743>                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                  <U+2785>
                                                              <U+273F>                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                  <U+271D>                                                                                                               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>                                                   <U+2743>
                  <U+2706>                                       <U+2747>
                                                              <U+273A>                                           <U+2739>                                   <U+2739>                                                           <U+2747>                                               <U+2747>                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+25BC>                                       <U+27AD>
                                                          <U+27AF>
                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                          <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                          <U+27AB>
                                                                                                          <U+273D>                                   <U+2749>                                                                                                                                                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>                                               <U+273E>                   <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+27B7>
                                                                                                              <U+2744>                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                                          <U+273B>                                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B3>
                                                                                      <U+27B3>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                          <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>                                           <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>                                                       <U+274F>
                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>                                                                                                   <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>                                               <U+273A>
                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                          <U+273A>                                   <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2798>                                                                      <U+276F>                                               <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>                       <U+25B2>
                                                              <U+273A>                                           <U+2739>                                   <U+2739>                                                           <U+2747>                                               <U+2747>                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                              <U+272D>
                                              <U+272C>
                                                                  <U+2738>                                           <U+2742>
                                              <U+272B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+2737>                                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                              <U+272A>                   <U+2736>                                       <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>                                                   <U+2745>               <U+2738>
                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                                  <U+2735>                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                              <U+2729>
                                                                  <U+2734>                                       <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                          <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                          <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                              <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27A2>
                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                                                          <U+27AF>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                          <U+27A2>                                   <U+2749>
                                                          <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                              <U+272C>
                                              <U+2730>
                                                          <U+27AB>                           <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                              <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                          <U+27A9>                           <U+27A9>
                                                              <U+273F>                                           <U+273F>                                                                                                                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>                                                                                                                                       <U+273F>
                                                          <U+27A8>                           <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                              <U+273E>                                               <U+2744>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>                                                                                               <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>                       <U+2744>
                                                          <U+27A7>                           <U+27A7>                                           <U+27AD>
                                                              <U+273A>                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>                           <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>                           <U+2744>
                                                              <U+2739>                                           <U+2739>                                   <U+2747>                               <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>                                                   <U+2747>                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                          <U+27A2>                           <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A2>
                              <U+2605>
                                                          <U+27A6>                           <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A7>                                                                                                                                       <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A4>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A7>
                              <U+2727>
                                                          <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AD>                                                                                                                                       <U+27AD>
                                                              <U+273D>                                           <U+273D>
                                                          <U+27A4>                           <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A2>
                              <U+2725>                               <U+273C>                                               <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>                                                                                                                                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B2>
                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                              <U+273B>                       <U+27A2>
                                                                                                          <U+273B>                                                                                                                                   <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>                                                                                                                                       <U+27AF>
                              <U+2726>
                                                              <U+273A>                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                          <U+27A1>                           <U+27A1>                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27A8>                                                                                                                                       <U+27A8>
                                                              <U+273A>                                           <U+273A>
                              <U+2725>
                                                          <U+27A0>                           <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>                                                       <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>       |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                              <U+2739>                                           <U+2739>                                   <U+2747>                                                           <U+273A>                                                   <U+2747>                       <U+2747>
                              <U+2724>
                              <U+2723>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                          <U+271F>
                      <U+2721>

                                                                                                                                      45/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2774>
                                      <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276A>
                                                                      <U+275E>                       <U+275E>               <U+275E>           <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                          <U+2665>                   <U+275C>               s           q                                                               <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              r
              <U+270E>                                                           <U+2665>                   <U+275C>               r           <U+2460>                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                      <U+275D>                       <U+275D>               <U+275D>           <U+275D>                                                                       <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2785>
              <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                       s
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                          <U+2665>                   <U+275C>               r           <U+2460>
              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                          <U+2665>                   <U+275C>                   <U+2665>
                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2461>
                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2782>
                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                  <U+2714>                                                                                                                               <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                                  <U+271B>                                                                                                                               <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2778>
                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                  <U+271A>                                                                                                                               <U+2778>                   <U+277E>
                                                                  <U+2719>                                                                                                                       <U+2777>
                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2466>
                                                                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2779>
                                                                                              <U+2765>                                                                                           <U+2468>
                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                      <U+2764>                                                   <U+2462>
                                                                  <U+2717>                                                                                                                       <U+2776>       <U+277B>
                                                                      <U+2710>                       <U+2763>                           <U+2762>                                                                                   <U+275E>
                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                      <U+2762>                       <U+2762>                           <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>                                           <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2469>       <U+2469>
                                                                          <U+2666>                   <U+2761>               t           <U+2461>
                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>       <U+2468>           <U+275D>
                                      <U+270F>
                                                                  <U+2715>                                                                                                                                               <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>       <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                  <U+2714>                                                                                               <U+2718>                       <U+2467>       <U+2467>
                                          <U+2712>
                                                                              q                   <U+2660>                   <U+2707>           <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2466>       <U+2466>
                                                                  <U+2713>                                                                                               <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                      <U+2738>                                   <U+2737>                                   <U+274B>                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                              <U+2740>                                           <U+2741>                                   <U+2741>                                   <U+2742>                                                   <U+2745>               <U+2740>
                                                              <U+2736>                                       <U+2736>                                   <U+2736>                                   <U+2736>                                                   <U+2736>                   <U+2736>
                                                              <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                                                                                                          <U+2742>                                   <U+2741>                               <U+274A>                                                       <U+2742>
                                                                                                          <U+2745>                                   <U+2745>                               <U+2734>                                                   <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                                                      <U+273F>                               <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>                               <U+273F>                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AB>
                                                                                                          <U+2744>                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                  <U+2786>
                  <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2743>                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                  <U+2785>
                                                          <U+273F>                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                  <U+271D>                                                                                                                   |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>                                                       <U+2743>
                  <U+2706>                                   <U+2747>
                                                          <U+273A>                                           <U+2739>                                   <U+2739>                           <U+2747>                                                   <U+2747>                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                      <U+25BC>                                               <U+27AD>
                                                      <U+27AF>
                                  <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                      <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                      <U+27AB>
                                                                                                      <U+273D>                                   <U+2749>                                                                                                                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>                                                   <U+273E>                   <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                      <U+27B7>
                                                                                                          <U+2744>                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                                      <U+273B>                                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                  <U+27B3>                                                                                                                                                           <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                      <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>                                                               <U+274F>
                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>                                                                                           <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>                                                   <U+273A>
                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                      <U+273A>                                   <U+273A>
                                                      <U+2798>                                                                              <U+276F>                   <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>                               <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>                       <U+25B2>
                                                          <U+273A>                                           <U+2739>                                   <U+2739>                           <U+2747>                                                   <U+2747>                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>
                                              <U+272D>
                                              <U+272C>
                                                              <U+2738>                                           <U+2742>
                                              <U+272B>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2737>                                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2742>
                                              <U+272A>               <U+2736>                                       <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>                                                       <U+2745>               <U+2738>
                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2745>
                                                              <U+2735>                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                              <U+2729>
                                                              <U+2734>                                       <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                      <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                      <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                              <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27A2>
                                                                                  <U+27AF>
                                                      <U+27AF>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                      <U+27A2>                                   <U+2749>
                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                              <U+272C>
                                              <U+2730>
                                                      <U+27AB>                           <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                              <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                      <U+27A9>                           <U+27A9>
                                                          <U+273F>                                           <U+273F>                                                                                                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>                                                                                                           <U+273F>
                                                      <U+27A8>                           <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                          <U+273E>                                               <U+2744>                                                                                                                       <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2748>                                                           <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>                       <U+2744>
                                                      <U+27A7>                           <U+27A7>                                                   <U+27AD>
                                                          <U+273A>                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>       <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>                           <U+2744>
                                                          <U+2739>                                           <U+2739>                                   <U+2747>           <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>                                                       <U+2747>                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                      <U+27A2>                           <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                              <U+2605>
                                                      <U+27A6>                           <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A7>                                                                                                   <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A7>
                              <U+2727>
                                                      <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>                                                                                                   <U+27AD>
                                                          <U+273D>                                           <U+273D>
                                                      <U+27A4>                           <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                              <U+2725>                           <U+273C>                                               <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>                                                                                                   <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B2>
                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                          <U+273B>                       <U+27A2>
                                                                                                      <U+273B>                                                                                               <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27AF>                                                                                                   <U+27AF>
                              <U+2726>
                                                          <U+273A>                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                      <U+27A1>                           <U+27A1>                                                                                                                   <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A8>                                                                                                   <U+27A8>
                                                          <U+273A>                                           <U+273A>
                              <U+2725>
                                                      <U+27A0>                           <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>                                       <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>       |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                          <U+2739>                                           <U+2739>                                   <U+2747>                           <U+273A>                                                       <U+2747>                       <U+2747>
                              <U+2724>
                              <U+2723>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                          <U+271F>
                      <U+2721>

                                                                                                                                                                                  46/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  q
                                              <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                          <U+2708>                           <U+2708>                   <U+2708>           <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                              <U+2468>                       t                   <U+2779>           <U+2777>                                               <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2778>
              <U+270E>                                                                                               <U+2468>                       t                   <U+2778>           <U+277E>                                           t
                                                                                                          <U+2709>                           <U+2709>                   <U+2709>           <U+2709>                                                       <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2194>
              <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2779>
                                                                                                              <U+2468>                       t                   <U+2778>           <U+277E>
              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A3>
                                                                                                              <U+2468>                       t                       <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2791>
                                                                      <U+2703>                           <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277F>
                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2794>
                              <U+25CF>                                                                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278F>
                                                                      <U+274A>                                                                                                                                           <U+277F>
                              <U+25CF>                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>                                                                                                                           <U+2786>
                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278B>
                                                                                                  <U+271B>                                                                                                                           <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2791>
                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2466>
                                                                                                  <U+271A>                                                                                                                           <U+278A>               <U+2790>
                                                                                                  <U+2719>                                                                                                                   <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2465>
                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2464>                                                                               <U+2786>
                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2462>
                                                                                                              <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                          <U+2462>                                                           <U+2780>
                                                                                                  <U+2717>                                                                                                                   <U+2788>       <U+278D>
                                                                                                          <U+2463>                           <U+2461>                               <U+2460>                                                               <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+277B>
                                                                                                          <U+2460>                           <U+2460>                               <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2783>                               <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2787>       <U+2787>
                                                                                                              <U+2469>                       <U+2707>                   <U+277A>           <U+277F>
                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2786>       <U+2786>       <U+2709>
                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+2715>                                                                                                                                       <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>       <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>                                                                                                   <U+2718>               <U+2785>       <U+2785>
                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                  <U+2777>                       <U+2467>                       <U+277D>           <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>       <U+2784>
                                                                                                  <U+2713>                                                                                                   <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                          <U+27A9>                   <U+27B3>                               <U+27B7>                       <U+27AC>
                                          <U+27A5>                   <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>
                                          <U+27B3>                       <U+27B9>                       <U+27B2>                               <U+27B9>
                                          <U+27A6>                       <U+27B9>                       <U+27A6>                           <U+27B3>
                                          <U+27B2>                       <U+27B9>                       <U+27A8>                           <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                          <U+27A5>                   <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                          <U+27AF>                                               <U+27AF>
                                                                  <U+27B6>                                                       <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                  <U+27AD>                           <U+27AD>                       <U+27AD>                                       <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                  <U+27AB>                           <U+27AB>                       <U+27AB>                                       <U+27AB>
                                                  <U+27A6>                           <U+27A9>                       <U+27A9>                                       <U+27A9>
                                                  <U+27A9>                           <U+27A9>                       <U+27A9>                                       <U+27A9>
                                                  <U+27A4>                           <U+27A4>                       <U+27A4>                                       <U+27A4>
                                                  <U+27A9>                           <U+27A9>                       <U+27A9>                                       <U+27A9>
                                                  <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>                       <U+27A5>                                       <U+27A5>
                                                  <U+27A8>                           <U+27A8>                       <U+27A8>                                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                  <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>                       <U+27A5>                                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                  <U+27A7>                           <U+27A7>                       <U+27A7>                                       <U+27A7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                  <U+27A6>                           <U+27A6>                       <U+27A6>                                       <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                          <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                  <U+27A5>                           <U+27A5>                       <U+27A5>                                       <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                          <U+27B8>
                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                  <U+27A4>                           <U+27A4>                       <U+27A4>                                       <U+27A4>                                                                                                                               <U+2765>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BB>
                                                                                          <U+27AA>
                                          <U+27AA>
                                                  <U+27A2>                           <U+27A2>                       <U+27A2>                                       <U+27A2>
                                                              <U+27B8>
                  <U+2720>                               <U+27A1>                           <U+27A1>                       <U+27A1>                                       <U+27A1>
                                                                                          <U+27BE>                           <U+27B1>
                                          <U+279A>
                                                              <U+27AA>
                  <U+271F>
                                                  <U+279F>                           <U+279F>                       <U+279F>                                       <U+279F>
                                                                                          <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                      <U+27B8>
                                          <U+27BE>
                  <U+271E>                                           <U+279A>
                                                  <U+27A0>                           <U+27A0>                       <U+27A0>                                       <U+27A0>
                  <U+271D>                                                                       <U+27B8>                           <U+279A>
                                          <U+27BD>
                  <U+2706>                                           <U+27BE>
                                                  <U+279F>                           <U+279F>                       <U+279F>                                       <U+279F>
                                                                                          <U+27B5>
                                                  <U+279E>                           <U+279E>                       <U+279E>                                       <U+279E>
                  <U+260E>                                                                                                   <U+27AF>
                                          <U+27BB>                       <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                  <U+2799>                           <U+2799>                       <U+2799>                                       <U+2799>                                                                                                                               <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                          <U+27BC>                   <U+27BE>                           <U+27BE>
                                                  <U+279D>                           <U+279D>                       <U+279D>               <U+27AE>                       <U+279D>
                                                                                              <U+2798>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                  <U+279C>                           <U+279C>                       <U+279C>                                       <U+279C>                                                                                                                               <U+2775>
                                                                                                                      <U+27BD>
                                                                                          <U+27AF>
                                          <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                  <U+279B>                           <U+279B>                       <U+279B>                                       <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                          <U+27AF>                           <U+27BB>
                                          <U+27BA>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276A>
                                                  <U+2799>                           <U+2799>                       <U+2799>                                       <U+2799>
                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                                          <U+27BE>                           <U+27BC>
                                                  <U+2195>               <U+2798>           <U+2195>                       <U+2195>                                       <U+2195>
                                          <U+27B8>
                                          <U+27B5>                   <U+27AF>                           <U+27BD>                               <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                      <U+274A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                      <U+25CF>                   <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                      <U+274A>
                                                          <U+272D>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                      <U+2746>                                                               <U+2751>
                                                          <U+272B>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2745>
                                                                                      <U+2745>                                                               <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                          <U+272A>                           <U+2744>                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2742>                                       P       <U+2746>
                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                      <U+2743>                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                      <U+2742>                                                           <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                          <U+272E>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                          <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                          <U+273E>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273F>
                                                          <U+272C>
                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                          <U+273D>                                                   <U+273C>                                                                                                                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                          <U+273C>                                                   <U+273C>
                                                                                  <U+274D>                                                               <U+274D>                                                                                               <U+274D>           <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+273B>                                                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>                                                                   <U+276C>
                                                                                  <U+25CF>                                                                   <U+25BC>                                                                                               <U+25B2>           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>                                           <U+273A>               <U+2773>
                                                                          <U+273A>                                                   <U+273A>                                                   <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                  <U+2748>                                                               <U+2748>                                           <U+2756>                                                                   <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>   <U+273E>                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                               <U+2747>                                   <U+25D7>       <U+273E>           <U+2748>                                       <U+25D7>           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>                       <U+2769>
                                                                          <U+2736>                                                   <U+2736>                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                  <U+2605>
                                                                          <U+2739>                                                   <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>                                                                       <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                          <U+2738>                                                   <U+2738>
                                  <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>                                                                       <U+273E>
                                                                                  <U+274B>                                                               <U+274B>
                                                                          <U+2737>                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                  <U+2725>                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                  <U+274A>                                                                   <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                          <U+2736>       <U+2749>                                           <U+2736>                   <U+2749>                                                                               <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>                                                                       <U+273F>
                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                          <U+2735>       <U+2748>                                           <U+2735>                   <U+2748>                                                                               <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273B>                                                                       <U+273B>
                                                                                  <U+2748>                                                               <U+2748>
                                  <U+2725>
                                                                          <U+2734>                                                   <U+2734>                                                   <U+25C6>   |           <U+275A>                               <U+276F>                   <U+25B2>   <U+25C6>   <U+25CF>
                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                               <U+2747>                                   <U+25D7>                   <U+2748>                                       <U+25D7>           <U+25D7>
                                  <U+2724>
                                  <U+2723>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                          <U+271F>
                      <U+2721>

                                                          47/144
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+261B>                                                    <U+261B>
                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>                                                <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                               <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714>                                     <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714>
                                    <U+2772><U+2773><U+2718><U+2712><U+2768><U+2714>                                               <U+2772><U+2773><U+2718><U+2712><U+2768><U+2714>
                                                            <U+2786><U+2789><U+278A>                                                  <U+2786><U+2789><U+278A>
                                       <U+2710><U+2765><U+275C><U+2766><U+2763><U+2767><U+2764>                                             <U+2710><U+2765><U+275C><U+2766><U+2763><U+2767><U+2764>
                                      <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764>                                             <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764>
                              <U+2463><U+271B><U+2768><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2464><U+2465>                                           <U+2463><U+271B><U+2768><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2660><U+2712><U+2665><U+2714>
                           <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775>                                              <U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469><U+2466> <U+2776><U+2777><U+2777><U+2466>
                                                            <U+2786><U+2787><U+2788>                                                  <U+2786><U+2787><U+2788>
                                    <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2660><U+2712><U+2665><U+2714>                                          <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714> <U+2464><U+2465>
                                    <U+2666><U+2663>qr<U+2666> stt<U+2666>                                            <U+2778><U+2779><U+277A><U+277B><U+277C><U+277D><U+277E>
                                     <U+2709><U+2708><U+2663><U+2707>r<U+2460><U+2461><U+2462>
                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+261E><U+2726><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2722><U+261E><U+2726><U+270C><U+2605>                                     <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+261E><U+2726><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2722><U+261E><U+2726><U+270C><U+2605>
                  <U+2737><U+2735>       <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+272A><U+2731>          <U+2732><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736>                <U+2737><U+2735>       <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+272A><U+2731>          <U+2732><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736>
                  <U+273D><U+273D>       <U+2738><U+2739><U+272C><U+273A><U+272A><U+2730>                <U+273B><U+273C><U+2733><U+2737><U+2734><U+2736>                <U+273D><U+273D>       <U+2738><U+2739><U+272C><U+273A><U+272A><U+2730>                <U+273B><U+273C><U+2733><U+2737><U+2734><U+2736>
                  <U+273B><U+2734>       <U+273E><U+273F><U+272C><U+2731>                  <U+2740><U+273D><U+2733><U+273D><U+2735><U+2736>                <U+273B><U+2734>       <U+273E><U+273F><U+272C><U+2731>                  <U+2740><U+273D><U+2733><U+273D><U+2735><U+2736>
                   <U+273B>       <U+2741><U+272C><U+2739><U+2742><U+272A>                  <U+2740><U+2733><U+2732><U+2743><U+2736>                 <U+273B>       <U+2741><U+272C><U+2739><U+2742><U+272A>                  <U+2740><U+2733><U+2732><U+2743><U+2736>
                 <U+270E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+270E>                                                <U+270E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+270E>
                 <U+2744><U+2745><U+2744><U+2746><U+2747> <U+2748><U+2746><U+272E><U+2749><U+274A><U+2729><U+2741><U+2738><U+274B>                  <U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F>                <U+2744><U+2745><U+2744><U+2746><U+2747> <U+2748><U+2746><U+272E><U+2749><U+274A><U+2729><U+2741><U+2738><U+274B>                  <U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F>
                 <U+2744><U+2745><U+2744><U+2746><U+2747> <U+2751><U+274A><U+2744><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2746><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+2738><U+274B>                 <U+25C6><U+25CF>                <U+2744><U+2745><U+2744><U+2746><U+2747> <U+2751><U+274A><U+2744><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2746><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+2738><U+274B>                 <U+25C6><U+25CF>
                           <U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+270E><U+2722><U+276F><U+2771>                                    <U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+270E><U+2722><U+276F><U+2771>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>                                 <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>                                 <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                 <U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782> <U+2783><U+2784>                                              <U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782> <U+2783><U+2785>

                                                         48/144
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+261B>                                                   <U+261B>
                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>                                               <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                                    <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737> <U+2738><U+2735><U+2739><U+2737>                                         <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737> <U+2738><U+2735><U+2739><U+2737>
                                                           <U+2792><U+2793><U+2792>                                                 <U+2792><U+2793><U+2792>
                           <U+272F><U+2730><U+2716><U+2731>                                                <U+272F><U+2730><U+2716><U+2731><U+2717> qr<U+2663>
                           <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+2713><U+2717>                     <U+2792><U+2794><U+2192>                 <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2663><U+2731><U+2730>q<U+2712><U+2711><U+2714><U+2715><U+2730><U+2663>                <U+2792><U+2794><U+2192>
                            <U+2718><U+2719><U+272C><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271A><U+272E><U+272B>                                          <U+2784><U+2785><U+2786><U+2779>      <U+2784><U+2777><U+2784><U+2709><U+2779>   <U+2709>t<U+2463><U+2787><U+2784><U+2777>t<U+2462>
                                                                               <U+277C><U+277D><U+277E> <U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2783>
                            <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+271B><U+2719><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2722><U+271C><U+2726><U+2727>                                <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779>t   st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707> <U+2460><U+2461><U+2462>   <U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469>
                            <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271C> <U+2724><U+272B><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2719><U+272C><U+272D><U+2722><U+271C>                                    <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779>t   st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707> <U+2460><U+2461><U+2462>   <U+2778><U+2464><U+2465><U+2469><U+277A><U+2465><U+2469>
                                                                               <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779>t   st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707> <U+2460><U+2461><U+2462>   <U+2778><U+2466><U+2469><U+277A><U+2465><U+277A><U+277B>
                            <U+2718><U+2719><U+272C><U+272D><U+2722><U+271A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2722>
                            <U+2718><U+2719><U+272D><U+2722><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2724><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2729><U+2722><U+271C>
                                                                               <U+2788><U+2782><U+2780><U+2789><U+278A> <U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2783>
                            <U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+2719><U+272B><U+2724><U+272C>                                         <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779>t   st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707> <U+2460><U+2461><U+2462>    <U+2787><U+277A><U+2465><U+2469><U+2466><U+277B><U+2469>
                                                                               <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779>t   st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707> <U+2460><U+2461><U+2462>    <U+2778><U+2464><U+2465><U+2469><U+277A><U+2465><U+2469>
                 <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D> <U+273E><U+261E><U+273F><U+270D><U+273F><U+2740><U+273B><U+261E><U+273F><U+270C><U+2741>                                    <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D> <U+273E><U+261E><U+273F><U+270D><U+273F><U+2740><U+273B><U+261E><U+273F><U+270C><U+2741>
                  <U+2751>       <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746> <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+2743><U+274A>       <U+274B><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F>                  <U+2751>       <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746> <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+2743><U+274A>        <U+274B><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F>
                  <U+25D7><U+25D7>       <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+2745><U+25C6><U+2743><U+2749>             <U+2756>P<U+25CF><U+2751><U+274D><U+274F>                  <U+25D7><U+25D7>       <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+2745><U+25C6><U+2743><U+2749>              <U+2756>P<U+25CF><U+2751><U+274D><U+274F>
                  <U+2756><U+274D>       |<U+2759><U+2745><U+274A>               <U+275A><U+25D7><U+25CF><U+25D7><U+274F>                  <U+2756><U+274D>       |<U+2759><U+2745><U+274A>                <U+275A><U+25D7><U+25CF><U+25D7><U+274F>
                   <U+2756>       <U+276F><U+2745><U+25BC><U+2771><U+2743>               <U+275A><U+25CF><U+274B><U+2772><U+274F>                   <U+2756>       <U+276F><U+2745><U+25BC><U+2771><U+2743>                <U+275A><U+25CF><U+274B><U+2772><U+274F>
                 <U+270E><U+261E><U+273B><U+261E><U+270E>                                               <U+270E><U+261E><U+273B><U+261E><U+270E>
                 <U+2773><U+2768><U+2773><U+2769><U+276C> <U+276D><U+2769><U+2747><U+276A><U+276B><U+2742><U+276F><U+25B2><U+2774>                  <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D>               <U+2773><U+2768><U+2773><U+2769><U+276C> <U+276D><U+2769><U+2747><U+276A><U+276B><U+2742><U+276F><U+25B2><U+2774>                  <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D>
                 <U+2773><U+2768><U+2773><U+2769><U+276C> <U+275E><U+276B><U+2773><U+276A> <U+2747><U+2769><U+2761><U+2762><U+25B2><U+2774>                 <U+2763><U+2775><U+275C>               <U+2773><U+2768><U+2773><U+2769><U+276C> <U+275E><U+276B><U+2773><U+276A> <U+2747><U+2769><U+2761><U+2762><U+25B2><U+2774>                 <U+2763><U+2775><U+275C>
                           <U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660> <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D> <U+273E><U+270E><U+273B><U+2665><U+2666>                                   <U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660> <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D> <U+273E><U+270E><U+273B><U+2665><U+2666>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>                                <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>                                <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                 <U+278B><U+278C><U+278D><U+278E> <U+278F><U+2790>                                             <U+278B><U+278C><U+278D><U+278E> <U+278F><U+2791>

                           49/144
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+261B>
                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                            <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2722> <U+2725> <U+2726><U+271B><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
                                   <U+2461><U+2727><U+2462><U+271B><U+2463>
                           <U+2464><U+2465><U+2466> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2711><U+2717>
                           <U+2709><U+2708><U+2707>r      <U+2709><U+2663><U+2709><U+275C>r    <U+275C><U+275B><U+2764><U+2460><U+2709><U+2663><U+275B><U+2763>
                           <U+2666><U+2663>qr<U+275B>  <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763>     <U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665>
                           <U+2761>rr<U+275C>   r<U+2467><U+2460><U+2468><U+2707><U+275C>r <U+2763><U+2460><U+2468>r q<U+2710><U+2765><U+2665>s<U+2765><U+2665>
                           <U+2469>r<U+2763><U+275B>   <U+2469>r<U+2763><U+275B> <U+2665><U+2776><U+2710>      q<U+2766><U+2665>s<U+2765>st
                           <U+2707><U+275B><U+2469>r<U+2761>  <U+2777>s <U+2778><U+2762><U+2708> <U+2663><U+2763>     <U+2460>s<U+2765><U+2665><U+2766>t<U+2665>
                           <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2711><U+2717>
                           <U+2709><U+2708><U+2707>r     <U+2709><U+2663><U+2709><U+275C>r      <U+275C><U+275B><U+2764><U+2460><U+2709><U+2663><U+275B><U+2763>
                           <U+2666><U+2663>qr<U+275B>  <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763>      <U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665>
                           <U+2666><U+2663>qr<U+275B>  <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763>      q<U+2710><U+2765><U+2665>s<U+2765><U+2665>
                           <U+2666><U+2663>qr<U+275B>  <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763>      q<U+2766><U+2665>s<U+2765>st
                           <U+2666><U+2663>qr<U+275B>  <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763>      <U+2460>s<U+2765><U+2665><U+2766>t<U+2665>
                 <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+261E><U+272F><U+270D><U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+261E><U+272F><U+270C><U+2731>
                  <U+2740><U+273E>       <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+2733><U+273A>         <U+273B><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F>
                  <U+2746><U+2746>       <U+2741><U+2742><U+2735><U+2743><U+2733><U+2739>               <U+2744><U+2745><U+273C><U+2740><U+273D><U+273F>
                  <U+2744><U+273D>       <U+2747><U+2748><U+2735><U+273A>                 <U+2749><U+2746><U+273C><U+2746><U+273E><U+273F>
                   <U+2744>       <U+274A><U+2735><U+2742><U+274B><U+2733>                 <U+2749><U+273C><U+273B><U+25CF><U+273F>
                 <U+270E><U+261E><U+272B><U+261E><U+270E>
                 <U+274D><U+274D><U+274F><U+2751> <U+25B2><U+274F><U+2737><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2732><U+274A><U+2741><U+2756>                 P<U+25D7>|<U+2759>
                 <U+274D><U+274D><U+274F><U+2751> <U+275A><U+25C6><U+274D><U+25BC> <U+2737><U+274F><U+276F><U+2771><U+2741><U+2756>                 <U+2772>P|
                           <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A> <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+270E><U+272B><U+276B><U+2774>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>                                 <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                 <U+2779><U+277A><U+277B><U+277C> <U+277D><U+277E>

                                                                                                              50/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B7>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277D>                               <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2783>               <U+2783>                           <U+2783>                               <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277F>                               <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2782>               <U+2782>                           <U+2782>                               <U+2782>                               <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277D>                               <U+277D>
                                                                              <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279A>
                                                                              <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2781>                                          <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277D>                               <U+277D>
                                                                              <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                              <U+277D>                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BA>
                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                              <U+277F>               <U+277F>                           <U+277F>                               <U+277F>
                                                                              <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BB>
                                              <U+2776>
                                                                              <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2780>               <U+2780>                           <U+2780>                               <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BE>
                                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BD>
                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                  
                                              <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                              <U+277D>               <U+277D>                           <U+277D>                               <U+277D>
                                                                              <U+278F>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                              <U+277F>               <U+277F>                           <U+277F>                               <U+277F>
                                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                  <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B8>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                              <U+277E>               <U+277E>                           <U+277E>                               <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BC>
                                                                                          <U+27A7>
                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                  
                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                              <U+277D>               <U+277D>                           <U+277D>                               <U+277D>
                                                                                                  
                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                          <U+27A6>
                                                                  <U+278D>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BA>
                                                                                                  
                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                  <U+278C>
                                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B8>
                                                                                                  
                                                                  <U+278B>
                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                              <U+2468>
                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                  <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B5>
                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                          <U+2778>
                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                          
                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                          <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                          <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                          <U+2779>
                                              <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                          <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                          
                                              <U+2466>
                                                          <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                          
                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                                              <U+279B>
                                                                                              
                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B3>
                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                              
                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277F>                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                                              <U+2461>
                                                                                              <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AD>
                                                                                              
                                                                                      <U+279E>
                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                              <U+2460>       <U+279D>
                                                                                              <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+279D>
                                              <U+2462>                                                                                                                       <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B2>
                                                                              <U+2707>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>
                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                  <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B4>
                                                                                              <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                  <U+2788>
                                                                                      <U+2799>
                                                                                              <U+279C>
                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AF>                   <U+27AD>
                                                                  <U+2787>
                                                                  <U+2786>
                                                                                      <U+2195>
                                                                                              
                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                                                              <U+279B>
                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                      <U+27A3>
                                                                              t
                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AB>                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A9>                   <U+27AF>                           <U+27AF>                               <U+27A9>
                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                      q                   q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                      <U+2660>                   <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                      <U+2663>                   <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2666>                   <U+2666>
                                                      <U+2665>                   <U+2665>
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+275C>
                                                      <U+2660>                   <U+2660>
                              <U+275B>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+275B>
                                                      <U+2767>                   <U+2767>
                  <U+2704>
                              <U+2775>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                          
                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                      <U+2765>
                                                                          
                                                      <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                          
                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                          
                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                          
                                                      <U+2764>
                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                          
                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                          
                                          <U+276B>
                                                      <U+275D>
                                          <U+276A>
                                                                          <U+2710>
                                          <U+276D>
                                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+276C>
                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                  <U+2752>       <U+2752>       <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                      <U+2744>                                                                                                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+273D>                                           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                              <U+272E>                                                                                           <U+274D>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                  <U+2749>                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+2742>                                           <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                  <U+2748>                                           <U+2748>
                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                      <U+273F>                               <U+273F>                                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                  <U+2743>                                           <U+2743>
                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                      <U+274B>                               <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                      <U+2740>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                  <U+273F>                                           <U+273F>
                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2730>                                                   <U+2746>                               <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+272F>                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                  <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                  <U+2747>                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                      <U+274A>                               <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                  <U+272E>                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274D>
                                                              <U+273B>                                                       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2772>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                              <U+273B>                   <U+2746>                   <U+2746>               <U+273B>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                  <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                              <U+273A>       <U+273C>           <U+2745>                   <U+2745>   <U+25CF>           <U+273A>       <U+2745>       <U+2745>
                                                  <U+272C>                                                           <U+272D>                                           <U+272D>
                      <U+271E>
                          <U+260E>
                      <U+271D>

                                        51/144
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271E><U+271F>                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E>                                  <U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2715><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2724><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272A>
                             <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+272D><U+272C><U+2734><U+2731>
                                        <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+2736><U+273B><U+273C>
                                        <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+273E><U+2742>
                                         <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+273B><U+2739><U+273C>
                             <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+2747> <U+25CF><U+2748><U+2747><U+274D>
                                          <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25B2>
                      <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+25C6> <U+2759><U+2756><U+25C6><U+275A><U+276F> <U+2771><U+276F> <U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+2773><U+276D> <U+276A><U+25D7><U+275A> <U+276B><U+2774><U+2756><U+2756>
                                    <U+2775><U+2771>|<U+25C6><U+275B> <U+275C><U+275D><U+2756><U+2774><U+276F><U+25C6><U+275E>
                         <U+2761><U+2762><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710>                     <U+2765><U+2763><U+2766><U+2763><U+2767>
                     r<U+2666>s<U+2666>t                                  <U+2660><U+2665><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>q
                                    <U+277A>
                                                                 <U+2779>
                <U+2709><U+2708><U+2707><U+2708><U+2460><U+2461>       <U+2462><U+2707><U+2463><U+2463>          <U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2708>     <U+2467><U+2707><U+2468><U+2469><U+2776>      <U+2777><U+2778><U+2776><U+2460><U+2708>
                                <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C>

                                        52/144
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271E><U+271F>                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E>                                  <U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2715><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2722><U+271C><U+2727><U+2727>
                            <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2730><U+272A><U+2729><U+2731><U+272E>
                                        <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2733><U+2738><U+2739>
                                        <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273B><U+273F>
                                         <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2738><U+2736><U+2739>
                             <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2744> <U+2749><U+2745><U+2744><U+274A><U+274B>
                                    <U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F><U+274F><U+2751> <U+25B2><U+274D><U+25BC><U+25C6>
                     <U+2710><U+2765> <U+2766><U+2765><U+2767><U+2660><U+2765><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663><U+2665>q r<U+2765>stst<U+2709><U+2708>
                     <U+275A><U+276F><U+25D7><U+2771>                                   <U+2756>PP<U+25D7>|<U+2759>
                                    <U+2764>
                                                                 <U+2763>
                <U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2773><U+2769><U+276C>       <U+276D><U+2768><U+276A><U+276A>          <U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+2773>     <U+275B><U+2768><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E>      <U+2761><U+2762><U+275E><U+2769><U+2773>
                                <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271B>

                                                                                                                              53/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B5>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2703>   <U+27AF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2776>               <U+2776>                           <U+2776>                               <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2703>                               <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2467>                               <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2469>               <U+2469>                           <U+2469>                               <U+2469>                               <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>                               <U+2465>
                                                                                      <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A9>
                                                                                      <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2750>                                                       
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2468>                                           <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>                               <U+2465>
                                                                                      <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2703>                           <U+2703>                               <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2467>               <U+2467>                           <U+2467>                               <U+2467>
                                                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2468>               <U+2468>                           <U+2468>                               <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                                  <U+2799>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A7>
                                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2465>               <U+2465>                           <U+2465>                               <U+2465>
                                                                                      <U+2782>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AE>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2467>               <U+2467>                           <U+2467>                               <U+2467>
                                                                                                  <U+2799>
                                                                          <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AC>
                              
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2466>               <U+2466>                           <U+2466>                               <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A6>
                                                                                                  <U+2195>
                                                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B7>
                              
                                                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2465>               <U+2465>                           <U+2465>                               <U+2465>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B4>
                                                                                                  <U+2194>
                                                                          <U+2780>
                              
                                                                                                                  <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B9>
                                                                                                  <U+27A3>
                                                                          <U+277F>
                                                                                                                  <U+27AA>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                  <U+27B6>
                                                                          <U+277E>
                                                                                                  <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                  <U+27AA>
                                                                                                  <U+2794>
                                                                                                                  <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A1>
                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                      t
                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                                  <U+2464>
                                                                                                  <U+2793>
                                                                          <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                  <U+2460>
                                                                          <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                  <U+2463>
                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                  <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                      q
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                  <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2467>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+2792>
                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A0>
                                                      <U+2665>                                               
                                                                                              <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2467>                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                      <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+2790>
                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                      <U+2460>       <U+278F>
                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                              <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                      <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                                      <U+2707>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272A>
                                                                                              <U+278D>
                                                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B3>
                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2469>
                                                                          <U+277B>
                                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                      <U+278E>
                                                                                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279E>                   <U+279D>
                                                                          <U+277A>
                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                                                              <U+278B>
                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                      <U+278D>
                                                                          <U+2778>
                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                      t
                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279C>                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>                   <U+279E>                           <U+279E>                               <U+279B>
                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                              <U+2660>                   <U+2660>                       <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                              <U+2710>                   <U+2710>                       <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                              <U+2767>                   <U+2767>                       <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                              <U+2766>                   <U+2766>                       <U+2766>
                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                  <U+2765>                       <U+2765>
                  <U+2706>
                                      <U+275C>
                                                              <U+2710>                   <U+2710>                       <U+2710>
                                      <U+275B>
                  <U+260E>
                                      <U+275B>
                                                              <U+2764>                   <U+2764>                       <U+2764>
                  <U+2704>
                                      <U+2775>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                  <U+275B>
                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                              
                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                  
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                              
                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                  <U+2770>
                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                  <U+2775>
                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                  <U+276E>
                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                              
                                                  <U+276B>
                                                                                  <U+2752>
                                                  <U+276A>
                                                                                                          
                                                  <U+276D>
                                              <U+271E>
                                                  <U+276C>
                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                  <U+27BE>       <U+27BE>       <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                              <U+2744>                                                                                                                       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                          <U+273D>                                                   <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                              <U+272E>                                                                                           <U+274D>
                                          <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                          <U+2749>                                                   <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                          <U+2742>                                                   <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                          <U+2748>                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                      <U+273F>                               <U+273F>                                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                          <U+2743>                                                   <U+2743>
                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                      <U+274B>                               <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                              <U+2740>
                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                          <U+273F>                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2730>                                                           <U+2746>                               <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                          <U+272F>                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                          <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                          <U+2747>                                                   <U+2747>
                                                                                                                      <U+274A>                               <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                              <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                          <U+272E>                                                                                                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274D>
                                                                      <U+273B>                                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2772>
                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                      <U+273B>                   <U+2746>                           <U+2746>               <U+273B>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                          <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+273A>       <U+273C>           <U+2745>                           <U+2745>   <U+25CF>           <U+273A>       <U+2745>       <U+2745>
                                                          <U+272C>                                                                   <U+272D>                                           <U+272D>
                      <U+271E>
                          <U+260E>
                      <U+271D>

                                         54/144
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271E><U+271F>                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E>                                   <U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2715><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2724><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272A>
                             <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+272D><U+272C><U+2734><U+2731>
                                         <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+2736><U+273B><U+273C>
                                         <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+273E><U+2742>
                                          <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+273B><U+2739><U+273C>
                                     <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748> <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>
                                           <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25B2>
                         <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756> P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F> |<U+2756> <U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+2772><U+276C> <U+276D><U+25C6><U+276F> <U+276A><U+276B><U+25D7><U+25D7>
                                     <U+2774>|<U+2775><U+275A><U+275B> <U+275C><U+275D><U+25D7><U+276B><U+2756><U+275A><U+275E>
                          <U+2761><U+2762><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710>                     <U+2765><U+2763><U+2766><U+2763><U+2767>
                     r<U+2666>s<U+2666>t                                   <U+2660><U+2665><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>q
                                     <U+277A>
                                                                  <U+2779>
                <U+2709><U+2708><U+2707><U+2708><U+2460><U+2461>        <U+2462><U+2707><U+2463><U+2463>          <U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2708>     <U+2467><U+2707><U+2468><U+2469><U+2776>      <U+2777><U+2778><U+2776><U+2460><U+2708>
                                 <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C>

                                        55/144
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271E><U+271F>                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E>                                  <U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2715><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2723><U+2722><U+2605><U+2605>
                            <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+272B><U+272A><U+2732><U+272F>
                                        <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2734><U+2739><U+273A>
                                        <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+273C><U+2740>
                                         <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2739><U+2737><U+273A>
                                    <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746> <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>
                                    <U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>
                     <U+2765><U+2766> <U+2767><U+2766><U+2660><U+2665><U+2766><U+2666><U+2663>q<U+2666>r s<U+2766>t<U+2709>t<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707>
                     <U+276F><U+2771>|<U+2772>                                   P<U+25D7><U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A>
                                    <U+2710>
                                                                 <U+2764>
                <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+2768><U+276C><U+276D>       <U+276A><U+2769><U+276B><U+276B>          <U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+2768>     <U+275C><U+2769><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761>      <U+2762><U+2763><U+2761><U+276C><U+2768>
                                <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C>

                                                                                                          56/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BD>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2777>   <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                          <U+277B>               <U+277B>                           <U+277B>                           <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2777>                           <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2776>                           <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                          <U+277A>               <U+277A>                           <U+277A>                           <U+277A>                           <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2777>                           <U+2777>
                                                                              <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B3>
                                                                              <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                          <U+2777>                                           <U+2778>
                                              <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2468>                           <U+2468>
                                                                              <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2779>                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A9>
                                                                              <U+278A>
                                              <U+2461>                                                                                           <U+2776>               <U+2776>                           <U+2776>                           <U+2776>
                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                                              <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2778>                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B2>
                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                                              <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>
                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                              <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2777>               <U+2777>                           <U+2777>                           <U+2777>
                                              s
                                                                              <U+2787>
                                                                                              <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2776>               <U+2776>                           <U+2776>                           <U+2776>
                                                                                          <U+279F>
                                                                      <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                                                              <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2469>               <U+2469>                           <U+2469>                           <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>
                                                                                          <U+279E>
                                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                                              <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>               <U+2468>                           <U+2468>                           <U+2468>
                                                                                              <U+2703>
                                              <U+2460>
                                                                                          <U+279D>
                                                                      <U+2785>
                                                                                              <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A9>
                                                                                              <U+27AE>
                                                                                          <U+279C>
                                                                      <U+2784>
                                                                                              <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>
                                                                                              <U+27AC>
                                                                      <U+2783>
                                                                                          <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                              <U+27B7>
                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                              <U+27B4>
                                              <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27A7>
                                                                      <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                      <U+277E>
                                                              <U+2467>
                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                              <U+2463>
                                              <U+2707>
                                                                      <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                              <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                              <U+2709>
                                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                      
                                              t
                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                              <U+2462>
                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2776>
                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                      <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A2>
                                              t
                                                                                                                                              <U+2776>
                                                                                      <U+2194>
                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2776>                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                      <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                      <U+2192>
                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                      <U+2794>                                                                                                                                       <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                                      <U+2793>
                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                      <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                      <U+2781>
                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277A>
                                                                      <U+2780>
                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                      <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>                   <U+27A2>
                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                      <U+277E>
                                                                                      <U+2790>
                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                      <U+2790>
                                                                      <U+277D>
                                              q
                                                                                      <U+278F>
                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A1>                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A0>
                                                                                      <U+278E>
                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A0>                   <U+27A4>                           <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A0>
                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2762>
                                                      <U+2761>
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+275C>
                                                      <U+275E>
                              <U+275B>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+275B>
                                                      <U+275D>
                  <U+2704>
                              <U+2775>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                          
                                          <U+276B>
                                          <U+276A>
                                                          
                                          <U+276D>
                                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+276C>
                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                              <U+2798>       <U+2798>       <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                          <U+2744>                                                                                                       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+273D>                                       <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                          <U+272E>                                                                                           <U+274D>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2731>                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                  <U+2749>                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+2742>                                       <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                  <U+2748>                                       <U+2748>
                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                  <U+273F>                               <U+273F>                                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274F>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                  <U+2743>                                       <U+2743>
                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                  <U+274B>                               <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                          <U+2740>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                  <U+273F>                                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2730>                                               <U+2746>                               <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+272F>                       <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                  <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                  <U+2747>                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                  <U+274A>                               <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>
                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                  <U+272E>                                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>
                                                                  <U+273B>                                               <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2772>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                  <U+273B>               <U+2746>               <U+2746>               <U+273B>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                  <U+261E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+273A>       <U+273C>       <U+2745>               <U+2745>   <U+25CF>           <U+273A>       <U+2745>       <U+2745>
                                                  <U+272C>                                                       <U+272D>                                           <U+272D>
                      <U+271E>
                          <U+260E>
                      <U+271D>

                                        57/144
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271E><U+271F>                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E>                                  <U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2715><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2724><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272A>
                             <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+272D><U+272C><U+2734><U+2731>
                                        <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+2736><U+273B><U+273C>
                                        <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+273E><U+2742>
                                         <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+273B><U+2739><U+273C>
                             <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+2749><U+25CF><U+274A> <U+274D><U+2748><U+274A>
                                          <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25B2>
                      <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|P<U+2759><U+25D7> <U+275A><U+2756><U+276F><U+25D7> <U+2756><U+2771> <U+275A><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+2772><U+276C> <U+276D>|<U+276F>
                               <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2774> <U+2775><U+2756><U+275B><U+2759><U+275C> <U+275D><U+275E><U+2774><U+276B><U+2771><U+2759><U+2761>
                         <U+2762><U+2763><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765>                     <U+2766><U+2764><U+2767><U+2764><U+2660>
                     s<U+2663>t<U+2663><U+2709>                                  <U+2665><U+2666><U+2666><U+2663>qr
                                    <U+277B>
                                                                 <U+277A>
                <U+2708><U+2707><U+2460><U+2707><U+2461><U+2462>       <U+2463><U+2460><U+2464><U+2464>          <U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2707>     <U+2468><U+2460><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777>      <U+2778><U+2779><U+2777><U+2461><U+2707>
                                <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C>

                                        58/144
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271E><U+271F>                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E>                                  <U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712> <U+2714><U+270F><U+2715><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2723><U+2722><U+2605><U+2605>
                            <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+272B><U+272A><U+2732><U+272F>
                                        <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2734><U+2739><U+273A>
                                        <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+273C><U+2740>
                                         <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2739><U+2737><U+273A>
                            <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+2747><U+2748><U+274A><U+2748> <U+274B><U+2746><U+25CF><U+2748>
                                    <U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>
                     <U+2765><U+2766> <U+2767><U+2766><U+2660><U+2665><U+2766><U+2666><U+2663>q<U+2666>r s<U+2766>t<U+2709>t<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707>
                     <U+276F><U+2771>|<U+2772>                                   P<U+25D7><U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A>
                                    <U+2710>
                                                                 <U+2764>
                <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+2768><U+276C><U+276D>       <U+276A><U+2769><U+276B><U+276B>          <U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+2768>     <U+275C><U+2769><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761>      <U+2762><U+2763><U+2761><U+276C><U+2768>
                                <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C>

                                                                                                                      59/144
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+2707>
                                      <U+2461>
                                      <U+2460>
                                              <U+2464>
                                          q
                                      <U+2708>
                                      <U+2707>
                                              <U+2463>
                                      <U+2709>
                                          q
                                      s
                                              <U+2462>
                                      <U+2708>
                                          s
                                      <U+2709>
                                          <U+2460>
                                      t
                                      s
                                      r
                                      r
                                      q
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+2724>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+2723>
                      <U+2722>
                      <U+271C>
                      <U+271B>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A4>
                      <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A8>
                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                               <U+279D>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A7>
                                                      <U+2465>
                      <U+2725>
                      <U+2725>
                                                      <U+2778>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2467>
                      <U+2717>
                      <U+270E>                               <U+2779>
                          <U+2747>
                                                      <U+2467>
                                                      <U+2781>
                                                      <U+2465>
                                                      <U+277C>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2701>
                                                      <U+277E>
                      <U+2721>
              <U+2727>
                      <U+271A>
                                                      <U+2778>
                                                                              <U+278B>           <U+278B>           <U+278B>           <U+278B>
              <U+270D>
                                                                              <U+278B>           <U+278B>           <U+278B>           <U+278B>
                      <U+2721>                               <U+2780>
                                                                                                                               <U+279B>
              <U+2720>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+277C>
                                                                              <U+278F>           <U+278F>           <U+278F>           <U+278F>
              <U+260E>
                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A1>
                                                                  <U+2778>
              <U+2718>                                       <U+2465>                       <U+2794>           <U+2794>           <U+2794>           <U+2794>
                      <U+260E>
              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                               <U+279E>
                          <U+2745>
                                                                              <U+2793>           <U+2793>           <U+2793>           <U+2793>
              <U+271B>                                                   <U+2777>
                                                      <U+277C>
                          <U+2744>
              <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+2793>           <U+2793>           <U+2793>           <U+2793>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A0>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                      <U+277F>
              <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2468>           <U+2784>           <U+2784>           <U+2784>           <U+2784>
              <U+2706>
                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                               <U+279F>
              <U+2720>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+2792>           <U+2792>           <U+2792>           <U+2792>
                                                      <U+2469>
                                                                  <U+2781>
                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                               <U+279E>
                                                                              <U+2791>           <U+2791>           <U+2791>           <U+2791>
              <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                  <U+2468>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2784>           <U+2784>           <U+2784>           <U+2784>
              <U+2714>
                                                  <U+276A>
                      <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                                                                               <U+279D>
                                                                  <U+2782>
              <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+2790>           <U+2790>           <U+2790>           <U+2790>
                      <U+270E>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+2465>
                                                      <U+2466>                       <U+278F>           <U+278F>           <U+278F>           <U+278F>
                          <U+2746>
              <U+270D>
                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                           
              <U+270E>                                       <U+2465>           <U+2779>
              <U+270E>
              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                               <U+279C>
                                                  <U+2772>
                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                                                               <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                               <U+2799>
                                                      <U+277E>
                      <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2771>
                      <U+271A>                               <U+2778>
                                                                                                                               <U+2195>
                      <U+2721>
                                                  <U+275A>
                      <U+261E>
                                                      <U+277D>
                                                                                                                               <U+2194>
                      <U+270C>
                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                           
                                                      <U+2777>
              <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2769>
                          <U+2745>
              <U+2724>
              <U+261E>
                                                      <U+2465>
                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A3>
                                                  <U+2768>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                               <U+2192>
                                                      <U+277C>
              <U+2723>
                      <U+260E>
                                                  <U+276D>
                      <U+270E>
              <U+2722>
                      <U+2706>
              <U+271C>
                                                  <U+2768>
                      <U+2701>
              <U+271B>
                      <U+2704>
              <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2771>
                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                           
              <U+2701>
                          <U+2743>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271A>
                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                           
              <U+2714>
                                                      <U+277B>
              <U+2702>
              <U+270D>                                   <U+276C>
                                                      <U+2779>
              <U+2719>
                      <U+2701>
              <U+271D>
                                                      <U+2465>
                      <U+2706>
              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                           
                      <U+270D>
              <U+2715>
                                                      <U+277A>
                                                  <U+2769>
                      <U+270C>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                               <U+279B>
                      <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2768>                                                                            <U+279F>
                                                      <U+277A>
                      <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2468>
                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A6>
                                                  <U+2771>
                      <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2779>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+278D>           <U+278D>           <U+278D>           <U+278D>
                                                      <U+2778>
                      <U+271E>                                                                                                        <U+279D>
                                                                          <U+278D>           <U+278D>           <U+278D>           <U+278D>
                      <U+271D>
                                                  <U+275A>
                      <U+2706>
                                                                          <U+278D>           <U+278D>           <U+278D>           <U+278D>                <U+27A5>
                                                                          <U+278E>           <U+278E>           <U+278E>           <U+278E>
                                                      <U+2778>
                      <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+278D>           <U+278D>           <U+278D>           <U+278D>
              <U+2706>
                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A4>
                                                      <U+2777>
                                                                          <U+278C>           <U+278C>           <U+278C>           <U+278C>
              <U+2718>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+278B>           <U+278B>           <U+278B>           <U+278B>
                                                  <U+2773>
                                                      <U+2465>
              <U+2701>
              <U+271F>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+278A>           <U+278A>           <U+278A>           <U+278A>
                                                                                                                               <U+27A2>
              <U+270C>
                                                      <U+2776>
              <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2789>           <U+2789>           <U+2789>           <U+2789>
                                                  <U+2772>   <U+2465>
              <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2788>           <U+2788>           <U+2788>           <U+2788>
              <U+2715>
                                                      <U+2469>                   <U+2787>           <U+2787>           <U+2787>           <U+2787>
                                                  <U+2771>
              <U+2714>
                                                      <U+2468>
                                                                          <U+2786>           <U+2786>           <U+2786>           <U+2786>
              <U+270E>
                                                      <U+2467>
                                                                          <U+2785>           <U+2785>           <U+2785>           <U+2785>
              <U+271D>
              <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+2784>           <U+2784>           <U+2784>           <U+2784>
                                                  <U+276F>
              <U+270D>
                      <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2466>
                                                                          <U+2783>           <U+2783>           <U+2783>           <U+2783>
              <U+270E>
                      <U+260E>
              <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2465>
                      <U+2718>
              <U+2706>
                                                  <U+275A>
                      <U+2726>
                      <U+271B>
              <U+2717>
                      <U+270E>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2706>
                      <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
              <U+271E>
                      <U+2720>
              <U+2701>
                                  
                      <U+271E>
              <U+2716>
                      <U+2714>
                                  <U+2749>
                      <U+270E>
                      <U+2701>
                      <U+270D>
                                  <U+274D>
                      <U+270E>
                      <U+270E>
                      <U+2725>
                                  <U+25CF>
                                  <U+274B>
              <U+2701>
              <U+2713>
              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                   <U+279A>
                                  <U+274A>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27BE>
                      <U+271D>
              <U+2712>
                      <U+270E>                                                                                                            <U+27BD>
                                  <U+2749>
                      <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27BA>
              <U+270C>
                      <U+2717>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27BC>
                      <U+271D>
              <U+260E>                   <U+2748>
                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27BB>
                      <U+260E>
              <U+2715>
              <U+2714>
                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B3>
              <U+2701>
                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B8>
              <U+2713>
                              <U+25C6>
              <U+261E>
                      <U+271A>
              <U+2706>
                              <U+25BC>
                      <U+270F>
              <U+2712>
                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27BA>
                              <U+25B2>
              <U+2711>
                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27AF>
                              <U+2751>
                          <U+2740>
              <U+270F>
                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                              <U+274F>
                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B2>
                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B3>
                  <U+2734>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B8>
                  <U+2735>
                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B2>
                  <U+273A>
                      <U+2722>
                                                              <U+2762>
                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B5>
                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                              P
                                                              <U+275D>
                  <U+273E>
                  <U+273D>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27AB>
                              <U+2756>
                                                              <U+2660>
              <U+270E>                                                                                           <U+2761>
                      <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
                  <U+273C>
              <U+2721>
                              <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B3>
                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                  <U+2735>
                      <U+2720>
                                                              <U+2763>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+2710>
              <U+261E>
                              <U+2751>
                                                              <U+2761>
                  <U+273B>
              <U+271D>
                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                  <U+2732>
                                                                                              <U+2765>
              <U+271E>
                                                              <U+2767>
                  <U+272E>
              <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27B2>
                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                              <U+2660>
                  <U+2732>
              <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+2761>
                  <U+2730>
                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27AF>
              <U+270C>
              <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                  <U+2731>
              <U+261B>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                              <U+2763>       <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27AB>
              <U+2721>
                  <U+2732>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                          <U+275C>
              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2775>
                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27AD>
              <U+2720>   <U+2739>                                                   <U+2710>
                              <U+2759>
                                                                                              <U+2766>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                          <U+2775>
              <U+271F>
                  <U+2738>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                   <U+27AB>
                                                                                              <U+2767>
                              |
              <U+271E>
                                                  <U+276A>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                  <U+2737>
              <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+275C>
              <U+2706>                                                                                                                    <U+27A9>
                                                              <U+2763>
                      <U+271E>
                              <U+25B2>
                  <U+272B>
                                                              <U+2761>
              <U+260E>                                                       <U+275E>
                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                  <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2703>
                  <U+272B>
              <U+2704>
                      <U+270E>
                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                       <U+276E>
                                                                                              <U+2765>           <U+275C>
                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                  <U+2765>
                  <U+272C>   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                       
              <U+2702>
                  <U+2736>
                                                  <U+276B>
                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                      <U+2765>           <U+2660>                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2752>
                  <U+2735>
                                                              <U+275D>
              <U+2701>       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                       
                  <U+2731>
                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                              <U+2660>                   <U+2775>           <U+275B>           <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                       <U+276E>
                                                  <U+276A>
                      <U+2718>
                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                       
                      <U+2701>
                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B6>
                      <U+2713>
                      <U+261E>
                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                       
                                                  <U+276F>
                      <U+2701>
                  <U+2732>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                       
                  <U+2731>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                       <U+276E>
                  <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                       
                          <U+2740>
                  <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27AC>
                  <U+2729>
                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B1>
                  <U+272C>
              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2703>
                  <U+2729>
              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2750>
                  <U+272D>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                       
              <U+261E>
                  <U+272C>                                                                                                                    
              <U+271D>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                       
              <U+271E>
                      <U+2701>
                  <U+272B>
                      <U+261E>
              <U+2706>
                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                       
                      <U+2702>
              <U+270D>
                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2798>
                      <U+2702>
              <U+270C>
                  <U+2605>
              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2798>
              <U+261B>       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B4>
              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2770>
                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                       <U+276E>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2703>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2752>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27AC>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2750>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2703>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B1>
              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27AE>
              <U+2704>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27AC>
                      <U+270D>
              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B4>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2719>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B6>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B7>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B4>
                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                       <U+27AA>

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                60/144
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>
         <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
               <U+271D><U+2720><U+2721>

                                  61/144
<removed-date>
                <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716>              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714>            <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2724>                         <U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729> <U+2727> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2605>
<removed-apn>
                                                                  <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>
                        <U+2741><U+2742> <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2745> <U+2746><U+2744><U+2747><U+2748><U+2747><U+2741><U+2749>
               <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740> <U+2737> <U+2734><U+2737><U+2739><U+2739>                   <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2736> <U+2737> <U+2734><U+2737><U+2739><U+2739>
                                                          <U+270D>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E>      <U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D>     <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>     <U+2721><U+2702><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>      <U+271E><U+270C><U+270C><U+271D><U+260E>
                              <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2730>

                                 62/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275C>    <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B> <U+2774><U+2775>       rst
              <U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765> <U+2761><U+2766>         <U+2767><U+2660> <U+2665> <U+2666><U+2767> <U+2665> <U+2663><U+2767>q<U+2666>
                     <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                                                     <U+2709><U+2708><U+2707>
                              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+270F><U+2715><U+2716>
                              <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2718><U+271C>
                                <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2715><U+2713><U+2716>
                            <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+272B><U+272C><U+272A><U+272D>
                                  <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730>
                         <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2732><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738><U+2736><U+2739> <U+2735><U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273B><U+273F>
                        <U+2740><U+2741><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>            <U+2745><U+2742><U+2746><U+2742><U+2747>
                 <U+274D><U+274A><U+274A><U+274F>                    <U+2748><U+2749><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>
                               <U+2769>
               <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25B2><U+25C6><U+2756>      P<U+25BC><U+25D7><U+25D7> |<U+2759><U+275A><U+25B2> <U+276F><U+25BC><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773> |<U+2773><U+2773><U+25D7><U+2768> <U+2756>
                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                              63/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+274A>     <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746> <U+2747><U+2748>       <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772>
              <U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC> <U+274D><U+25C6>          <U+2756>P <U+25D7> |<U+2756> <U+25D7> <U+2759><U+2756><U+275A>|
                      <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271D><U+2706><U+261B><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                                                   <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769>
                            <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+270C><U+2712><U+2713>
                            <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2715><U+2719>
                             <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713>
                           <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2723><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729><U+2727><U+272A>
                           <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774> <U+2775><U+276D><U+275B><U+275C>
                   <U+275D><U+275E> <U+2761><U+275E><U+2762><U+2763><U+275E><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2764><U+2766> <U+2767><U+275E><U+2660><U+2665><U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>
                  <U+2730><U+2731><U+272D><U+2732>                  <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F>
                             <U+2742>
               <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2734><U+2736><U+2737>    <U+2738><U+2735><U+2739><U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+2734> <U+273D><U+2735><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740> <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740><U+2739><U+2741> <U+2737>
                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+260E>

                                     64/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2761>     <U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B> <U+275C><U+275D>       <U+2709><U+2775><U+2708>
              <U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660> <U+2764><U+2665>          <U+2666><U+2663> q r<U+2666> q s<U+2666>tr
                      <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                                                               <U+2707><U+2460><U+2461>
                               <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+270D><U+2713><U+2714>
                               <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716><U+271A>
                                 <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714>           <U+2707><U+2460><U+2782>
                            <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729><U+272A><U+2605><U+272B>
                          <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+272D><U+2732><U+2733> <U+2734><U+272D><U+2735><U+272E><U+2733><U+2731>
                   <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738> <U+2739><U+2738><U+273A><U+273B> <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2737><U+2738><U+273B> <U+2737><U+2741> <U+273B><U+2742><U+2743> <U+2739><U+273D><U+273C><U+2742><U+2744><U+2745><U+2743>
                       <U+2462><U+273E><U+2744><U+2737><U+273E> <U+273B><U+2737> <U+2742><U+2744><U+273B><U+273B><U+2744><U+2745><U+2463> <U+2464><U+2737><U+2739><U+2462><U+2465><U+2743><U+273B><U+2743><U+2466>
                                    <U+2746><U+2747>
                   <U+2467><U+2468> <U+2469><U+2468><U+2776><U+2777><U+2468><U+2778><U+2779><U+277A><U+2778><U+277B> <U+277C><U+2468><U+277D><U+277E><U+277D><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780>
                                       <U+2707><U+2460><U+2707>
               <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25CF><U+25BC><U+274D>              <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274A><U+274D><U+2781>        <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+274D>
                                 <U+276A>
               <U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+2756><U+25D7>|     <U+2759>P<U+275A><U+275A>         <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2756>    <U+2773>P<U+2768><U+2769><U+276C> <U+276F><U+276C><U+276C><U+275A><U+276D> |
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                 65/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2731>              <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272B> <U+272E><U+272F>            <U+2741><U+272B><U+2742>
              <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739> <U+2734><U+273A>                        <U+273B><U+273C> <U+273D> <U+273E><U+273B> <U+273D> <U+273F><U+273B><U+2740><U+273E>
                        <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2716><U+2717>
                    <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271C><U+2725><U+2726><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2726><U+271B><U+2722><U+2727><U+2722><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2729><U+2727><U+2725><U+2726><U+272A>
                   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2725><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2743><U+2743><U+2744> <U+2745><U+2746> <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A> <U+2748><U+274B><U+25CF><U+2748><U+274D>  <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25B2><U+2748><U+274B><U+25CF><U+25BC>
                  <U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+275A><U+2771> <U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2768> <U+2769><U+276C><U+276C><U+275A><U+276D><U+2771><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774>
                         <U+25C6><U+2756>                   P<U+25D7>|
                         <U+2780><U+2781><U+2781>
                    <U+2461><U+276A><U+2773><U+2462><U+2773><U+2462><U+2463> <U+2464><U+276A><U+2465><U+2466>
              <U+2764> <U+2775> <U+275B> <U+275C> <U+275D> <U+275E> <U+2761> <U+2762> <U+277F> <U+2763>
                 q <U+2710> <U+2765> <U+2766> <U+2767> <U+2660> <U+2665> <U+2666> <U+2663>
                  r s t <U+2709> <U+2708> <U+2707> <U+2460>
              <U+2467><U+2468><U+2469>       <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779><U+277A> <U+277B><U+277A><U+277C><U+277D><U+277B><U+277E>
                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                           66/144
<removed-date>
               <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E>             <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                        <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2712><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272B><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+272E><U+272B><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2734><U+272E><U+272B><U+2732><U+272D>
              <U+2605><U+2735><U+2736>
              <U+2737><U+272F><U+2732><U+2730><U+2738><U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B> <U+2736><U+272B><U+272C><U+2734><U+272E><U+2732><U+272D>
              <U+2737><U+272F><U+2732><U+2730><U+2738><U+2739> <U+2745><U+2746> <U+2736><U+272B><U+272C><U+2734><U+272E><U+2732><U+272D>
              <U+2737><U+272F><U+2732><U+2730><U+2738><U+2739> <U+2747><U+2746> <U+2736><U+272B><U+272C><U+2734><U+272E><U+2732><U+272D>
              <U+273C><U+273D><U+2734><U+272C><U+272E><U+2732><U+272F><U+273E><U+2732><U+272B><U+272E>
              <U+2733><U+272F><U+272B><U+272C><U+2738> <U+273F><U+2732><U+2740><U+2734><U+2732><U+272D><U+272E>
              <U+2741><U+272A><U+2732><U+272F><U+2742><U+2732><U+272C><U+2743><U+2744>
              <U+2741><U+272D><U+2743><U+273D><U+272F><U+272E>
                  <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>            <U+2725><U+2723><U+2726><U+2727>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                             67/144
<removed-date>
                <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E>             <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>          <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                       <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2712><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2735><U+2732><U+271B><U+272B><U+2723><U+271C><U+272D><U+2736><U+271C><U+2725><U+2723>
              <U+2724><U+272D><U+2725><U+272B><U+2737> <U+2731><U+271C><U+2738><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+272C><U+2733><U+271C><U+272D><U+2739><U+271C><U+272B><U+2729><U+272E>
              <U+272C><U+2722><U+2729><U+2732><U+272D><U+2723>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2734><U+2722><U+2722><U+2725><U+2722><U+2723><U+2605><U+272B><U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2722><U+2726><U+271B><U+2723><U+271C>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2725><U+272B><U+271C> <U+272C><U+272B><U+2723><U+272D><U+272E>
              <U+2727><U+271C><U+272F><U+2725><U+2729><U+2605><U+2730>
              <U+2731><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+272D><U+2732><U+2732><U+2733>
                   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>                  <U+2717><U+2715><U+2718><U+2719>
                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                            68/144
<removed-date>
                <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E>           <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>     <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
               <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273B><U+273C><U+2735><U+2736> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2729><U+271C><U+272A>
              <U+272B><U+272A><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272D><U+2723><U+2724><U+272C><U+271C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2724><U+272D><U+2723><U+271C><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+2725><U+271C>
              <U+2727><U+2730><U+272E> <U+2731><U+2732><U+271C><U+272F><U+272A>
              <U+2727><U+271C><U+2733><U+272F><U+2724><U+272A>
              <U+2727><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+271B><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+271C><U+2723>
              |<U+2759><U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+275A><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768> <U+2769><U+2771><U+276C><U+276C><U+276D><U+2772><U+276F><U+276A>
                           <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+2756><U+2749><U+274F>
                           <U+274F><U+274B><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+274F><U+274B><U+25C6>
                 <U+2747><U+2743><U+2746><U+2740><U+273E><U+273F>    <U+274D>P<U+25BC> <U+274F><U+274B><U+25D7><U+2749><U+25CF> <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+273E><U+2740><U+2741> <U+2742><U+273E><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                             69/144
<removed-date>
               <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E>           <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>     <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272A> <U+272B><U+272C><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+2711><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2717><U+2711><U+2723><U+271C><U+2714><U+2722>
              <U+2717><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270F><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+270F><U+2714><U+271B><U+2713>
              <U+2736><U+2711><U+2722><U+2714><U+2737><U+2714><U+2715><U+271C><U+2713><U+2714><U+2738><U+2739>
                  <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+272E><U+2735>               <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730>
                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                           70/144
<removed-date>
                <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C>           <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B>     <U+270E><U+270E><U+270F>
               <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2733><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722><U+271B><U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+2717><U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2713><U+2719>
              <U+2726><U+271A><U+2727><U+2727><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+272A>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2716>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2715>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+273F>
                 <U+273E><U+273A><U+273D><U+2737><U+2735><U+2736>              <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2735><U+2737><U+2738> <U+2739><U+2735><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                           71/144
<removed-date>
               <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>          <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E>          <U+270F><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+271A> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2713><U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>                 <U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2730>
               <U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A>                 <U+2735><U+2729><U+272A><U+2736>
               <U+276B><U+2774><U+2775>                      <U+2731><U+2732>
               <U+276B><U+2774><U+275B>                     <U+2737><U+272C><U+2729><U+2738>
                                        <U+2733><U+2734>
               <U+275C><U+2774><U+275D>
               <U+275C><U+2774><U+275E>
                 <U+273C>                        <U+273D>
                             <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B>         <U+273E><U+273F><U+2740>
                 <U+2745>            <U+2741>           <U+2749>
                <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748>          <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>         <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>
                 <U+25B2>            <U+274D>           <U+25D7>
               <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P          <U+274F><U+2751>         |<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F>
                              <U+2771>
                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D>

                                      72/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25B2>     <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> <U+274F>       <U+274D><U+274D><U+276D>
              <U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A> <U+2756><U+276F>          <U+2771><U+2772> <U+2773> <U+2768><U+2771> <U+2773> <U+2769><U+2771><U+276C><U+2768>
                      <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+270D><U+2713><U+2714>
                                <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716><U+271A>
                                 <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714>
                          <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272B><U+272E><U+2725>
                           <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B> <U+275C><U+276B><U+275D><U+275E>
                   <U+2761><U+2762> <U+2763><U+2762><U+2764><U+2710><U+2762><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2765><U+2660> <U+2665><U+2762><U+2666><U+2663><U+2666><U+2663>qr
               <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+2733><U+2739><U+2735><U+2734>                             <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2734>
                                  <U+2749>
               <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273B><U+273D><U+273E>      <U+273F><U+273C><U+2740><U+2740>         <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+273B>   <U+2744><U+273C><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747> <U+2741><U+2747><U+2747><U+2740><U+2748> <U+273E>
                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                      73/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25B2>     <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> <U+274F>       <U+276D><U+276A><U+276B>
              <U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A> <U+2756><U+276F>          <U+2771><U+2772> <U+2773> <U+2768><U+2771> <U+2773> <U+2769><U+2771><U+276C><U+2768>
                      <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+270D><U+2713><U+2714>
                                <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716><U+271A>
                                 <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714>
                          <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272B><U+272E><U+2725>
                           <U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D> <U+275E><U+2775><U+2761><U+2762>
                   <U+2763><U+2764> <U+2710><U+2764><U+2765><U+2766><U+2764><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+2767><U+2666> <U+2663><U+2764>qrqrst
               <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+2733><U+2739><U+2735><U+2734>               <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2731><U+2734><U+2709><U+2735>        <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2734>
                                  <U+2749>
               <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273B><U+273D><U+273E>      <U+273F><U+273C><U+2740><U+2740>         <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+273B>    <U+2744><U+273C><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747> <U+2741><U+2747><U+2747><U+2740><U+2748> <U+273E>
                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                  74/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+275D>    <U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774> <U+2775><U+275B>       st<U+2709>
              <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766> <U+2762><U+2767>         <U+2660><U+2665> <U+2666> <U+2663><U+2660> <U+2666> q<U+2660>r<U+2663>
                     <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                               <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+270E><U+2714><U+2715>
                               <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B>
                                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2714><U+2712><U+2715>
                          <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A><U+272B><U+2605><U+2725><U+272C> <U+272D><U+2727>
                                   <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2730>
                        <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738><U+2735><U+2732><U+2739> <U+273A><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2739> <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+273C><U+2740>
                         <U+2741><U+2742><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745>            <U+2746><U+2743><U+2747><U+2743><U+2748>
                 <U+274B><U+274F><U+274B><U+2751>                     <U+2749><U+274A><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>
                                <U+276C>
               <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+25BC><U+2756>P       <U+25D7><U+25C6>|| <U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+25BC> <U+2771><U+25C6><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768> <U+2759><U+2768><U+2768>|<U+2769> P
                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+260E>

                              75/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+25CF>     <U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748> <U+2749><U+274A>       <U+2772><U+2773><U+2768>
              <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756> <U+274F>P          <U+25D7>| <U+2759> <U+275A><U+25D7> <U+2759> <U+276F><U+25D7><U+2771><U+275A>
                      <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+270D><U+2713><U+2714>
                            <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716><U+271A>
                             <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714>
                         <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729><U+272A><U+2727><U+2724><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2726>
                           <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B> <U+2774><U+276C><U+2775><U+275B>
                   <U+275C><U+275D> <U+275E><U+275D><U+2761><U+2762><U+275D><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2763><U+2765> <U+2766><U+275D><U+2767><U+2660><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+2666>
                  <U+2732><U+2733><U+272F><U+2734>                  <U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731>
                             <U+2744>
               <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2739>    <U+273A><U+2737><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+2736> <U+273F><U+2737><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742> <U+273C><U+2742><U+2742><U+273B><U+2743> <U+2739>
                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                     76/144
<removed-date>
                 <U+274F><U+2751><U+274F>     <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B> <U+25CF><U+274D>       <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D>
              <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>| <U+25BC><U+2759>          <U+275A><U+276F> <U+2771> <U+2772><U+275A> <U+2771> <U+2773><U+275A><U+2768><U+2772>
                      <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+270D><U+2713><U+2714>
                             <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716><U+271A>
                              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714>
                          <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729><U+272A><U+2727><U+2724><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2726>
                           <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B> <U+275C><U+276B><U+275D><U+275E>
                   <U+2761><U+2762> <U+2763><U+2762><U+2764><U+2710><U+2762><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2765><U+2660> <U+2665><U+2762><U+2666><U+2663><U+2666><U+2663>qr
               <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2731><U+2737><U+2733><U+2732>                            <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2732>
                                 <U+2747>
               <U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+2739><U+273B><U+273C>     <U+273D><U+273A><U+273E><U+273E>         <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2739>   <U+2742><U+273A><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745> <U+273F><U+2745><U+2745><U+273E><U+2746> <U+273C>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                  77/144
<removed-date>
                <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C>         <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B>      <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                       <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2715> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A><U+271A><U+271B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F>
              <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2735><U+2738><U+2734>
              <U+2739><U+2736><U+2738><U+2733><U+273A> <U+273B><U+2735><U+273C><U+2732><U+2735><U+273D><U+2734>
              <U+2743><U+2747><U+2735><U+2736><U+2748><U+2735><U+2733><U+2740><U+2744>
              <U+2743><U+273D><U+2740><U+2731><U+2736><U+2734>
              <U+273E><U+2732><U+2735><U+273D><U+2734> <U+272D><U+273D><U+273D><U+2738><U+273D><U+2734><U+273F><U+2733><U+2740><U+2735>
              <U+273E><U+2732><U+2735><U+273D><U+2734> <U+2739><U+2738><U+273D><U+2741><U+2732><U+2734><U+2735>
              <U+272F><U+273F><U+2740><U+2742><U+2738><U+2733><U+2735> <U+2743><U+2733><U+2734><U+2736><U+2744>
              <U+272F><U+2735><U+2745><U+2738><U+2740><U+273F><U+2746>
               <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726> <U+2722><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2723><U+272A><U+272A>            <U+272B><U+2605><U+272C><U+2722>
                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                            78/144
<removed-date>
                             <U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>            <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                                      <U+273E><U+273F><U+2740>
                <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2723><U+272A><U+2727><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2605><U+272C><U+2725><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272E><U+2727>
                         <U+271A><U+271B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+271C><U+2717>
                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2730><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738><U+2731><U+2739><U+273A><U+2736><U+2738><U+2739><U+2731><U+273B><U+2736><U+2739><U+273A><U+2736><U+273C><U+273D> <U+2737><U+273A><U+273A><U+273D>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                               79/144
<removed-date>
                               <U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>           <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734> <U+2735><U+272F><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2733><U+2731><U+272E><U+2738>
              <U+274A><U+2741><U+273F><U+273C> <U+2742><U+274F><U+2749><U+273A><U+2743>
              <U+274A><U+2741><U+273F><U+273C> <U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+2743>
              <U+2746><U+2740><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+273A><U+273F><U+2743>                     <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC>
              <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D> <U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+273A><U+2743>                <U+2751><U+25C6><U+2756>
              <U+2744><U+2742><U+2745><U+2745><U+273F><U+273A><U+273B><U+2741><U+2743>
                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>                    <U+2713><U+2711><U+2714><U+270F>
                   <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C>        <U+2722><U+271B><U+2716><U+2723><U+271A><U+2716><U+2724><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2725><U+2716><U+2726>
                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                         80/144
<removed-date>
                          <U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718>          <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+2723>                <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>               <U+272D><U+2729><U+272A><U+272E>
              <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+271F><U+2721>                   <U+272F><U+272C><U+2729><U+2730>
              <U+261B><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+261B><U+271F><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+271F><U+2725>
              <U+2726><U+271F><U+270C>
              <U+2726><U+271F><U+2727>
                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713>

                              81/144
<removed-date>
                               <U+2734><U+2735><U+2734><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738>        <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B>
                           <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2718><U+2713><U+2719><U+2711><U+271A>
              <U+271B><U+271A><U+2711><U+271C><U+2711><U+2722><U+2713><U+2714><U+271C><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2714><U+2722><U+2713><U+2711><U+2722><U+2724><U+2722><U+2715><U+2711>
              <U+2717><U+2725><U+2723> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2717><U+2711><U+2605><U+2724><U+2714><U+271A>
              <U+2717><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270F><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2711><U+2713>
                  <U+2733><U+272F><U+2732><U+272C><U+272A><U+272B>               <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272A><U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>
                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                                              82/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                          q
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
              <U+270D>
              <U+270C>
              <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+276F>                                       <U+273B>                           <U+273B>
                                              <U+274A>           <U+274A>           <U+273B>                   <U+274A>                   <U+273C>                           <U+273E>
                                              <U+273D>           <U+273D>           <U+273D>                   <U+273D>                   <U+273D>                           <U+273D>
                                              <U+274A>           <U+274A>                               <U+274A>
                                                                      <U+275A>                                       <U+275A>                           <U+25CF>
                                                                      <U+273B>                                       <U+273B>                           <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2764>
                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                  <U+2731>                                                                                                   <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2764>
                                                  P
                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                          <U+272F>
                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                  <U+2745>                                       <U+2745>                           <U+2745>
                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                                              <U+2739>   <U+2740>                                       <U+2740>                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                          <U+2731>
                                          <U+2745>           <U+2745>           <U+2740>                   <U+2745>                   <U+2740>                           <U+2740>
                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                              |
                                      <U+2749>
                                          <U+2740>           <U+2740>                               <U+2740>
                                                                  <U+2744>                                       <U+2744>                           <U+2744>
                                                                          P
                                      <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2756>           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2731>
                                      <U+2734>                                   <U+2730>
                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                  <U+2725>
                                                              <U+2730>
                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                          <U+272F>
                                  <U+2727>   <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                          <U+2740>                           <U+2740>
                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                              <U+272F>
                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                      <U+2748>
                                  <U+2726>
                                                                  <U+2740>                                       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                              <U+273A>           <U+273A>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                  <U+2742>                                       <U+2742>                           <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                  <U+2725>
                                      <U+2747>
                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                              <U+272F>
                                                                  <U+2771>                                       <U+2771>                           
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                                                          <U+2730>                                               <U+2736>
                                      <U+2731>
                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                  <U+2740>                                       <U+2740>                           <U+2740>
                                      <U+2746>           <U+2751>           <U+2759>           P                           <U+2769>
                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                  <U+2723>
                                          <U+2740>           <U+2740>                               <U+2740>
                                                                  <U+273F>                                       <U+273F>                           <U+273F>
                  <U+271F>
                              <U+271C>   <U+2723>
                              <U+271A>
                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+2722>
                              <U+271B>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+271A>
                  <U+271D>
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+2719>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2775>
                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774>
                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276A>
                                                          <U+274D>
                                              <U+273E>
                                  <U+272A>
                                  <U+2729>
                                              <U+273E>           <U+25CF>
                                              <U+273D>           <U+273D>
                                                                      <U+273C>                   <U+273B>                   <U+273B>                           <U+273C>
                                  <U+2605>
                                              <U+273C>           <U+273B>
                                              <U+273B>           <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2764>
                                                                                                                              <U+272F>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                              <U+2730>
                                      <U+272F>           <U+274B>
                                      <U+2737>                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                      <U+2736>                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                          <U+2713>           <U+2735>           <U+2735>
                                          <U+2745>           <U+2745>           <U+2745>                                                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                          <U+2718>
                                      <U+2734>           <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                  <U+276D>
                                          <U+2740>           <U+2740>           <U+2740>                                                                   <U+2740>
                          <U+2717>
                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                      <U+2733>           <U+2733>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                                              <U+2749>
                                          <U+2740>           <U+2740>           <U+2740>               <U+2745>                       <U+2745>                           <U+2740>
                          <U+2716>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+2740>                       <U+2740>
                                          <U+2744>           <U+2744>           <U+2744>           <U+2737>                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                          <U+2711>
                                                  <U+272F>           <U+2731>
                                      <U+272F>
                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                          <U+2715>
                                      <U+2732>           <U+2732>
                                                              <U+2733>                                                                   <U+2769>
                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                          <U+270F>
                                                                              <U+2733>
                                      <U+2731>           <U+2731>
                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                              <U+2737>                                                               <U+2737>
                                          <U+2743>           <U+274F>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                      <U+2730>
                                                                              <U+2738>
                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                                              <U+2731>                                                               <U+2731>
                                          <U+2743>           
                                                                              <U+2739>
                                      <U+272F>           <U+272F>                                                   <U+2768>
                                          <U+2742>           <U+2742>
                                                              <U+2738>                                                               <U+2738>
                          <U+2713>
                                                                              <U+274B>
                                          <U+2741>           <U+2740>
                                      <U+272E>           <U+272E>                                               <U+272F>
                                                              <U+2734>                                                               <U+2734>
                          <U+2712>
                                          <U+2740>           <U+2740>           <U+2741>                                                                   <U+2741>
                          <U+2711>           <U+272D>           <U+272D>           |               <U+2772>                       <U+2773>                       |
                                                                                  <U+2740>                       <U+2740>
                                          <U+273F>           <U+273F>           <U+273F>                                                                   <U+273F>
                          <U+270F>
                          <U+270E>
                      <U+261B>
                      <U+2721>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+2720>

                                                          83/144
<removed-date>
                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                      <U+2732>
              <U+270D>
              <U+270C>
              <U+261E>
                                          <U+2746>
                                          <U+274B>
                                          <U+2762>
                                          <U+274A>
                                              <U+273A>   <U+273A>       <U+273A>       <U+273A>
                                          <U+275A>
                                              <U+2739>   <U+2739>       <U+2739>       <U+2739>
                                          <U+276C>
                                              <U+275D>   <U+275D>       <U+275D>       <U+275D>
                                              <U+2739>   <U+2739>       <U+2739>       <U+2739>
                                          <U+274B>
                                  <U+2751>
                                              <U+2739>   <U+2739>       <U+2739>       <U+2739>
                                          <U+2744>
                                          <U+2749>
                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+2775>   <U+2775>       <U+2775>       <U+2775>
                                  
                                          <U+2761>
                                  <U+274D>
                                          <U+275E>
                                  <U+25CF>
                                          <U+2771>
                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                  <U+2756>
                                  <U+274D>
                                              <U+275D>   <U+275D>       <U+275D>       <U+275D>
                                          <U+2744>
                                  <U+25C6>
                                              <U+2739>   <U+2739>       <U+2739>       <U+2739>
                                          <U+276F>
                                          <U+2749>
                                  <U+25BC>
                                              <U+2775>   <U+2775>       <U+2775>       <U+2775>
                                          <U+2745>
                                  <U+274F>
                                              <U+273C>   <U+273C>       <U+273C>       <U+273C>
                                          <U+2771>
                                  <U+25B2>
                                          <U+275E>   <U+2740>   <U+2740>       <U+2740>       <U+2740>
                                          <U+276F>   <U+2739>   <U+2739>       <U+2739>       <U+2739>
                                          <U+2776>
                                              <U+2759>   <U+2759>       <U+2759>
                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                  <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                  P
                                          <U+275C>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                          <U+274B>   <U+2775>   <U+2775>       <U+2775>       <U+2775>
                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                          <U+2747>
                                              <U+2775>   <U+2775>       <U+2775>       <U+2775>
                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                          <U+276F>
                                              <U+2775>   <U+2775>       <U+2775>       <U+2775>
                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                          |
                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                              <U+2775>   <U+2775>       <U+2775>       <U+2775>
                                          <U+2774>
                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                          <U+274A>
                  <U+271F>
                              <U+271C>
                                          <U+2743>
                              <U+271A>
                  <U+271E>
                              <U+271B>
                  <U+260E>
                              <U+271A>
                  <U+271D>
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+2719>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                              <U+276B>   <U+276B>       <U+276B>       <U+276B>
                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                      <U+2660>
                                              <U+276B>   <U+276B>       <U+276B>       <U+276B>
                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                              <U+276B>   <U+276B>       <U+276B>       <U+276B>
                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                              <U+276D>   <U+276D>       <U+276D>       <U+276D>
                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                      <U+2469>
                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                              <U+276C>   <U+276C>       <U+276C>       <U+276C>
                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                              <U+2769>   <U+2769>       <U+2769>       <U+2769>
                                          <U+274B>
                                      <U+2666>
                                          <U+2747>
                                      <U+2468>
                                      <U+2665>
                                          <U+276F>
                                      <U+2767>
                                              <U+276A>   <U+276A>       <U+276A>       <U+276A>
                                          |
                                      q
                                          <U+2774>
                                              <U+2743>   <U+2743>       <U+2743>       <U+2743>
                                      <U+2467>
                                              <U+2772>   <U+2772>       <U+2772>       <U+2772>
                                          <U+274A>
                                      <U+2709>
                                      <U+2709>
                                              <U+276D>   <U+276D>       <U+276D>       <U+276D>
                                          <U+2743>
                                      <U+2467>
                                              <U+276C>   <U+276C>       <U+276C>       <U+276C>
                                      <U+2466>
                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                              <U+2769>   <U+2769>       <U+2769>       <U+2769>
                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                      <U+2465>
                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                              <U+2768>   <U+2768>       <U+2768>       <U+2768>
                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                      <U+2462>
                                      <U+2464>
                                      <U+2707>
                                              |
                                      <U+2463>
                                              <U+274B>
                                      <U+2461>
                                              <U+2744>
                                      <U+2707>
                                                  <U+2745>       <U+2745>       <U+2745>
                                                  |       |       |
                                              <U+2771>
                                                  <U+2749>       <U+2749>       <U+2749>
                                      <U+2462>
                                      <U+2461>
                                              <U+2741>
                                                  <U+2748>       <U+2748>       <U+2748>
                                          <U+2744>
                                      <U+2460>
                                                  |       |       |
                                          <U+276F>
                                              <U+2744>
                                      <U+2707>
                                                  <U+2771>       <U+2771>       <U+2771>
                                          <U+2773>
                                                  <U+2746>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                          <U+2771>   <U+2745>
                                                                                  <U+2779>
                                      <U+2766>
                                                  <U+274B>       <U+274B>       <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                              <U+2745>
                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                      r
                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                  <U+2744>       <U+2744>       <U+2744>
                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                          <U+2772>
                                                  <U+274B>       <U+274B>       <U+274B>
                                              <U+2759>
                                      <U+2708>
                                              <U+273E>
                                      <U+2666>           <U+2777>       <U+2777>       <U+2777>
                                              <U+2745>
                                      <U+2767>
                                              |
                                              <U+2749>
                                      <U+2666>
                                      <U+2709>
                                              <U+2748>
                                      t
                          <U+2713>
                                      s
                                                      <U+276B>       <U+276B>
                          <U+2718>
                                                      <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                      r
                          <U+2717>           q
                                                      <U+276F>       <U+276F>           <U+276B>
                                                      <U+2745>       <U+2745>
                                              <U+2742>   <U+2742>       <U+2742>           <U+2742>
                                                                          <U+274B>
                          <U+2716>
                                      <U+2663>
                                                      <U+2774>       <U+2774>
                                                                          <U+2744>
                                              <U+2741>   <U+2741>       <U+2741>           <U+2741>
                                          <U+274B>                               <U+2749>
                                      <U+2666>
                                                      <U+274B>       <U+274B>
                          <U+2711>
                                      <U+2665>
                                                      <U+275E>       <U+275E>
                                                                          <U+2761>
                                      <U+2660>
                                              <U+2740>           <U+275D>           <U+2778>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                          <U+274A>
                          <U+2715>
                                      <U+2767>
                                          <U+2749>                               <U+275E>
                                                      <U+275E>       <U+275E>
                                              <U+273F>   <U+275D>       <U+275D>
                                                                      <U+273C>
                          <U+270F>
                                      <U+2766>
                                              <U+273E>   <U+273E>       <U+273E>           <U+273E>
                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                      <U+2771>       <U+2771>
                                          <U+2748>
                                              <U+273D>   <U+273D>       <U+273D>           <U+273D>
                                                      |       |
                                      <U+2764>
                          <U+2714>                           |       |
                                          <U+2747>
                                                                          <U+274A>
                                                      <U+2749>       <U+2749>
                                              <U+2739>   <U+2739>       <U+2739>           <U+2739>
                                          <U+2746>
                                                                          <U+2745>
                                          <U+2745>
                                      <U+2765>
                          <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2762>       <U+2762>
                                              <U+2739>   <U+2739>       <U+2739>           <U+2739>
                                                                          <U+274B>
                                          <U+2744>
                                                      <U+2745>       <U+2745>
                          <U+2712>
                                      <U+2710>
                                              <U+273C>   <U+273C>       <U+273C>           <U+273C>
                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                      <U+274B>       <U+274B>
                                              <U+273B>   <U+273B>       <U+273B>           <U+273B>
                                          <U+2743>
                          <U+2711>           <U+2764>
                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                      <U+2773>       <U+2773>
                                              <U+273A>   <U+273A>       <U+273A>           <U+273A>
                          <U+270F>
                                                      <U+274B>       <U+274B>
                                      <U+2763>
                                                                          <U+2772>
                                              <U+2739>   <U+2739>       <U+2739>           <U+2739>
                          <U+270E>
                      <U+261B>
                                                      <U+2772>       <U+2772>
                      <U+2721>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+2720>

                                                                                                                                      84/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>                   <U+261B>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                          <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2730>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                          <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                      <U+2721>                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                                       <U+260E>
                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+270D>
                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                          <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                          <U+2701>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                              <U+2721>
                                                              <U+261B>
                                          <U+2715>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                  <U+2711>
                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+260E>       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2713>                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                          <U+271F>                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+271F>                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                          <U+2701>                                                                                   <U+2701>                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+271E>                                   <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+271E>                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                          <U+2702>                                                                                   <U+2702>                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                          <U+260E>                                                                           <U+260E>
                      <U+2711>                                                                                   <U+2711>                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2702>                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                      <U+270F>                                                                                   <U+270F>                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+261E>                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                              <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+261B>                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                              <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                           <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                              <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                  <U+2702>                                                   <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                      <U+261B>                                                               <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                              <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>                                   <U+2711>
                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+271E>                                                       <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                      <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>                               <U+271E>
                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>                                       <U+260E>                                                           <U+260E>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2714>                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                              <U+2704>                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2706>                                                           <U+2706>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+271E>                                                                                   <U+2701>
                              <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>                                                           <U+2714>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                          <U+2702>                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>                                                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>           <U+2706>                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>                                                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>

                                                                                                                                                  85/144
<removed-date>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2735>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2734>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2732>
                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2731>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
              <U+2739>
              <U+272E>
              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2706>                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2605>
                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+271A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+272A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2716>
                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>                   <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2701>                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2719>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>                       <U+2704>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713>                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                          <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                          <U+2717>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                          <U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>               <U+271E>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                              <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2712>                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                          <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                              <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270D>
                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                              <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                      <U+272E>
                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                              <U+2702>                                                                                                               <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                          <U+2714>
                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2721>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                          <U+270C>
                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2726>
                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                              <U+2701>
                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2714>
                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2724>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                          <U+2712>                                                                               <U+261E>
                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                      <U+272B>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2718>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                  <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2716>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                  <U+2701>                                                                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                                  <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2714>                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                                                                                               <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+260E>                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272F>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                  <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2725>                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2724>

                                                                                                              86/144
<removed-date>                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2720>       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>           <U+271F>                                                                                                   <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>       <U+2716>                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>                       <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>           <U+271A>
                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>                               <U+2702>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                  <U+2701>
                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                      <U+2704>
                      <U+270D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                          <U+261B>
                                      <U+2711>
                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+271E>
                      <U+271F>
                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+260E>
                          <U+2712>
                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                  <U+2701>
                  <U+2718>
                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                  <U+261E>                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                  <U+261B>                                                               <U+261B>
                              <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+261B>                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
              <U+2704>                                                           <U+2704>                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+271E>                                                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                              <U+271F>                           <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                  <U+271F>
                                              <U+271F>                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
              <U+2702>                                                           <U+2702>                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                              <U+271E>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                              <U+2720>                                                               <U+2720>
              <U+2701>                                                           <U+2701>                                                                                           <U+2701>                                   <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2730>
                              <U+2702>
                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                              <U+2702>                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+271D>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                              <U+2706>                                                               <U+2706>
                                                              <U+270D>
                              <U+271D>
                                              <U+260E>                                                               <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                              <U+2706>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                              <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272E>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2704>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                      <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+270E>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                  <U+271E>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                      <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                              <U+270E>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                  <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                              <U+270D>
                                  <U+271F>                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>

                                                                                                  87/144
<removed-date>
                                          <U+2706>
                                          <U+260E>
                                          <U+2706>
                                          <U+271E>
                                  <U+270E>
                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+270D>
                                              <U+2720>
                                  <U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+260E>
                                          <U+271E>
                                  <U+261E>
                                          <U+2701>
                                          <U+2712>
                                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+2711>
                                  <U+261B>
                                          <U+271E>
                                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+270F>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+260E>                                                                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+2732>
              <U+2729>
                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
              <U+2605>
                      <U+2727>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2730>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                      <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
              <U+2727>
                          <U+2735>                                               <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                          <U+2701>
              <U+2726>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                              <U+2723>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2701>
              <U+2725>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>                   <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271D>           <U+260E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                      <U+2702>                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                  <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
              <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2730>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+2720>
              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>                       <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+2717>                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>                           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>                               <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                                                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+2702>                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                              <U+2722>                                           <U+2713>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2719>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>                                                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>

                                                                                                                                                                                  88/144
<removed-date>
              <U+2738>
              <U+2734>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                              <U+270E>
              <U+2733>                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                  <U+260E>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>                                                   <U+270F>
                                                  <U+2706>                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                                              <U+270E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                                     <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2719>
                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>                                                                                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2702>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>               <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                  <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                     <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2720>                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                  <U+2701>                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+2721>
                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>                                           <U+2716>                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2736>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2733>
                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2736>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2733>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                          <U+271E>
                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                          <U+2702>                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2729>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                          <U+271F>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2725>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2722>
                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2734>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2724>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+2701>                                                   <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2733>                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2722>                                                                                                                     <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+272A>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2729>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                  <U+270E>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2716>
                                                                                          <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                  <U+2716>
                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>                               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2716>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2729>
                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2725>
                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                  <U+270C>                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271A>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                  <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2723>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2702>
                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>                           <U+2713>
                                      <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                      <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>                                                                                                                                     <U+2704>       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                      <U+271C>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+2706>                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2727>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>                               <U+2701>
                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2726>                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2725>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2729>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>                                                                                           <U+2702>
                      <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>                                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706>
                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>                               <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2735>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2723>
                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+260E>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                      <U+2729>
                                                          <U+271F>
                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2736>
                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2720>
                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2702>
                                                      <U+270D>
                                      <U+2701>                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                      <U+260E>               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                      <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                  <U+272B>
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272A>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2721>                                                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>                                                                                                       <U+2727>                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270F>                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2724>                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2723>

                                                      89/144
<removed-date>   P
              <U+2756>
                                                                                   <U+2749>
                                                                                   <U+2748>
                              <U+2743>
              <U+25C6>
                              <U+2745>
                              <U+2742>
                              <U+2747>
                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                   <U+2718>
                              <U+2744>
<removed-apn>
                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                   <U+2763>
                                                                               <U+2713>
                              <U+2746>
                                                                   <U+2762>
                                                                               <U+270C>
                              <U+2745>
                                              <U+2764>
                                                                   <U+2761>
                              <U+2744>
                                          |
                                          <U+25D7>
                              <U+2743>
                              <U+2742>
                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                       <U+2775>
                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                       <U+2774>
                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                       <U+276B>
                                                                   <U+2716>
                                                       <U+276A>
                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                       <U+276D>
                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                           <U+271E>
                  <U+274F>
                          |
                  
                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                       <U+2704>
                          |
                  <U+274D>
                                                                           <U+270D>
                          <U+25D7>
                  <U+25CF>
                  <U+274B>
                                                                           <U+270C>
                  <U+274A>
                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                       <U+2736>
                                  <U+2772>
                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                       <U+2735>
                                  <U+276C>
                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                           <U+2730>
                                                                           <U+2721>
                                      <U+2723>
                                  <U+2769>
                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                  <U+2768>
                                                           <U+272D>
                                                                           <U+271F>
                                      <U+2722>
                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                               <U+275E>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                           <U+272C>
                                  <U+2773>
                                                               <U+275D>
                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                      <U+271C>
                                  <U+2772>
                                                           <U+272F>
                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                               <U+275C>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                      <U+271B>
                                                           <U+272E>           <U+2735>
                                      <U+271A>
                                  <U+2771>
                                                  <U+2726>            <U+275B>
                                                           <U+272D>
                                      <U+2719>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                       <U+2734>
                                  <U+276F>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                       <U+2733>
                                  <U+275A>
                              <U+2741>
                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                           <U+2721>
                              <U+2740>
                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                                           <U+271E>
                                  <U+2759>
                              <U+273F>
                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                       <U+2731>
                              <U+273E>
                                                                           <U+271E>
                              <U+273D>
                                                                           <U+271D>
                              <U+273C>
                              <U+273B>
                              <U+273A>
                      <U+25BC>
                      <U+25B2>
                      
                      <U+2751>

                                                                  90/144
<removed-date>   <U+276C>
              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                              <U+274A>
              <U+2768>
                              <U+25CF>
                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                              <U+2749>
                                              <U+2725>
                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                              
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                          <U+275C>
                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                              <U+2723>
                              <U+274B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                              <U+2722>
                              <U+274D>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2775>
                                                          <U+2774>
                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                              <U+274B>
                                                          <U+2775>
                                                          <U+2774>
                              <U+274A>
                                                          <U+276B>
                                                          <U+276A>
                              <U+2749>
                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                          <U+277E>
                                                                  s
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                  <U+2462>
                                          <U+277D>
                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                          <U+277C>
                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                              <U+2777>
                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                  <U+2460>
                                                                              <U+2776>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                      <U+2740>
                                                                              t
                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                  t
                                                                              <U+2469>
                                      <U+273D>
                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                      <U+273F>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                              <U+2468>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                  <U+276F>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                              <U+2467>
                  <U+275A>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                      <U+2665>
                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+2466>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                  |
                                                                      <U+2748>
                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                      <U+2660>
                  P
                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                              <U+2465>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                                      <U+273C>
                                                                              s
                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                      
                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                      <U+273B>
                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                  t
                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                  s
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                  r
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                  q
                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                  <U+2732>
                                                              <U+277A>
                                                                          <U+277B>
                                                                                      <U+272B>           <U+2732>
                                                  <U+2778>
                                                              <U+2779>
                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                      <U+272A>
                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                  <U+25BC>                                                   <U+2729>
                              <U+2747>
                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                      <U+2605>
                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                  <U+2751>
                              <U+2745>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                      <U+2727>
                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                  <U+274F>
                              <U+2743>
                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                  <U+272E>
                              <U+2742>
                              <U+2741>
                          <U+2773>
                          <U+2772>
                      <U+275A>
                          <U+2771>

                                                              91/144
<removed-date>   <U+2462>
              <U+2461>
                                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                                                   <U+2660>
                                  <U+275E>
              <U+2460>
                                  <U+2762>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                  <U+275D>
                                              <U+2725>
                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                   <U+2719>
                                  <U+2764>
                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                  <U+2761>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                   <U+2716>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                   <U+2716>
                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2730>
                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2730>
                                  <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2727>
                                                      <U+272F>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                   <U+271C>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                   <U+271B>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2727>
                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2726>
                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                  t
                              <U+2465>
                                          <U+2773>
                  s
                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                              <U+2464>
                  r
                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                           <U+270E>
                              <U+2463>
                  q
                  <U+2663>
                                                                                           <U+270D>
                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                               <U+2756>
                                          <U+276F>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                               <U+275A>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                                           <U+273A>
                                                                           <U+2739>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                          <U+2742>                    <U+2759>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                       <U+2751>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                                               <U+2739>
                                                                               |
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                       <U+274F>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2741>
                                                               <U+273B>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                       
                                                                               <U+25D7>
                                                               <U+2745>
                                                          <U+2740>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                       <U+274D>
                                                               <U+2744>
                                                                           <U+2745>
                                                          <U+273F>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                       <U+25CF>
                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                               <U+2743>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                           <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                       <U+274A>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                               P
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                      <U+2767>
                                  <U+275B>
                                      <U+2766>
                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                               <U+2756>
                                  <U+2775>
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                      <U+2765>
                                                                       <U+2747>
                                  <U+2774>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2738>
                                  <U+276B>
                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                      <U+2710>                                <U+2746>
                                  <U+276A>
                                                                               <U+25C6>
                                  <U+276D>
                                  <U+276C>
                          <U+2707>
                          <U+2708>
                      s
                          <U+2709>

                                                              92/144
<removed-date>   <U+2462>
              <U+2461>
                                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                                                   <U+2660>
                                  <U+275E>
              <U+2460>
                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                  <U+2762>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                  <U+275D>
                                              <U+2714>
                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                  <U+2764>
                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                              <U+2712>
                                  <U+2761>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                              <U+2711>
                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2730>
                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                  <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2727>
                                                      <U+272F>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2727>
                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2726>
                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                  t
                              <U+2715>
                                          <U+2773>
                  s
                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                              <U+2464>
                  r
                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                           <U+270E>
                              <U+2463>
                  q
                  <U+2663>
                                                                                           <U+270D>
                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                               <U+2756>
                                          <U+276F>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                               <U+275A>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                                           <U+273A>
                                                                           <U+2739>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                          <U+2742>                    <U+2759>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                       <U+2751>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                                               <U+2739>
                                                                               |
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                       <U+274F>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2741>
                                                               <U+273B>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                       
                                                                               <U+25D7>
                                                               <U+2745>
                                                          <U+2740>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                       <U+274D>
                                                               <U+2744>
                                                                           <U+2745>
                                                          <U+273F>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                       <U+25CF>
                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                               <U+2743>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                           <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                       <U+274A>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                               P
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                      <U+2767>
                                  <U+275B>
                                      <U+2766>
                                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                               <U+2756>
                                  <U+2775>
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                      <U+2765>
                                                                       <U+2747>
                                  <U+2774>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2738>
                                  <U+276B>
                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                      <U+2710>                                <U+2746>
                                  <U+276A>
                                                                               <U+25C6>
                                  <U+276D>
                                  <U+276C>
                          <U+2707>
                          <U+2708>
                      s
                          <U+2709>

                                                                      93/144
<removed-date>   
              <U+274D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                              <U+2738>
              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                              <U+273A>
                                                          |
                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                              <U+2737>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                          <U+25D7>
                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                              <U+2726>
                              <U+2739>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                          P
                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                              <U+2725>
                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2756>
                                                          <U+25C6>
                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                          <U+2756>
                              <U+2739>
                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                              <U+2738>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+25B2>
                              <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2751>
                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                  <U+277D>
                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                              <U+2707>
                                                                          <U+2778>
                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                          <U+2777>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                      <U+2766>
                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                          <U+2776>
                                                              r           <U+2469>
                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                          <U+2469>
                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                      <U+2710>
                                                              t       <U+2665>
                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2710>
                                                              s           <U+2461>
                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                      <U+2764>
                                                              s
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                  s
                                                                          <U+2467>
                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                  <U+2748>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                          <U+272C>
                  <U+2747>
                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+277B>
                                                                          <U+2468>
                  <U+2746>
                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                  r
                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                              r
                  <U+2745>
                                                                          <U+2467>
                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                              <U+2663>
                                                      <U+2762>
                  <U+2743>
                                                                                              <U+277A>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+272A>
                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                                      <U+2460>
                                                              <U+2663>
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                              q
                                                                          <U+2466>
                                          <U+2729>
                                                      <U+275E>
                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+2464>
                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                      <U+2766>
                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                          <U+2463>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                              <U+2766>           <U+2461>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                  <U+276D>
                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                              <U+2736>
                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                      <U+2740>
                              <U+2735>
                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                          <U+2774>                   <U+2720>
                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                          <U+276B>
                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2768>
                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                          <U+276A>
                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                              <U+2730>
                              <U+272F>
                          <U+274B>
                          <U+274A>
                      <U+2747>
                          <U+2749>

                                                      94/144
<removed-date>   <U+273B>
              <U+273A>
                                                                               <U+272F>
                                                                               <U+272E>
                              <U+2729>
              <U+2739>
                                                               <U+271A>
                                                               <U+271A>
                              <U+272B>
                                                               <U+2718>
                              <U+2605>
                              <U+272D>
                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                           <U+270C>
                                      <U+2768>           <U+2775>
                              <U+272A>
<removed-apn>
                                                                           <U+2714>
                                      <U+276F>           <U+276F>
                                                               <U+2718>
                                                                           <U+2714>
                              <U+272C>       <U+2773>           <U+2773>
                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                               <U+2717>
                              <U+272B>
                                      <U+2772>           <U+2772>
                                                               <U+2719>
                              <U+272A>
                                      <U+2771>           <U+2771>
                                                               <U+2718>
                                      <U+276F>           <U+276F>
                              <U+2729>
                                                               <U+2717>
                                                               <U+2716>
                                      <U+275A>           <U+275A>
                              <U+2605>
                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                       <U+271E>
                  <U+2735>
                                  <U+274A>           <U+274A>
                  <U+2734>
                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                   <U+2704>
                  <U+2733>
                                                                       <U+270E>
                                  <U+274A>           <U+274A>
                  <U+2732>
                  <U+2731>
                                  <U+274B>           <U+274B>
                                                                       <U+270D>
                  <U+2730>
                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                  <U+274A>           <U+274A>
                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                  <U+274A>           <U+274A>
                                  <U+274A>           <U+276C>
                                  <U+2749>           <U+2769>
                                          <U+2759>
                                          <U+274D>
                                  <U+2748>           <U+2748>
                                          |
                                                       <U+2774>
                                  <U+2747>           <U+2747>
                                                       <U+276B>
                                          <U+25D7>
                                  <U+2746>           <U+2746>
                                                       <U+2751>
                                                       <U+274F>
                                                                   <U+261B>
                                          <U+25B2>
                                  <U+2745>           <U+2745>
                                                       <U+276A>
                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                       <U+270C>
                                  <U+2744>       P   <U+2744>
                                                       <U+276D>
                                                                       <U+271F>
                                          <U+2756>            <U+2756>
                                  <U+2743>           <U+2743>
                                                                       <U+261E>
                                  <U+2742>           <U+2742>
                                          <U+25C6>            <U+25C6>
                                  <U+2741>           <U+2741>
                                          <U+25BC>            <U+25BC>
                                  <U+2740>           <U+2740>
                                          <U+25B2>            <U+25B2>
                                          <U+2751>            <U+2751>
                                          <U+274F>            <U+274F>
                                                               <U+271A>
                                                      
                                                               <U+271A>
                                          <U+274D>            <U+274D>
                                                               <U+2718>
                                          <U+25CF>            <U+25CF>
                                                               <U+2715>
                              <U+2727>
                                                               <U+2718>
                                                                       <U+2721>
                              <U+2726>
                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                               <U+273F>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                               <U+273E>
                              <U+2724>
                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                               <U+273D>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                               <U+273C>
                              <U+2722>
                              <U+271C>
                              <U+271B>
                          <U+2738>
                          <U+2737>
                      <U+2734>
                          <U+2736>

                                                                      95/144
<removed-date>   <U+2747>
              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                                                      <U+273B>
                              <U+2732>
              <U+2745>
                              <U+2734>
                                                          <U+2751>
                              <U+2731>
                                                          <U+274B>
                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                          <U+274F>
                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                              <U+2733>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                          
                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+274D>
                                                          <U+25CF>
                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                          <U+274D>
                              <U+2733>
                                                          <U+25CF>
                              <U+2732>
                                                          <U+274B>
                                                          <U+274A>
                              <U+2731>
                                                          <U+2749>
                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                  <U+2779>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                  <U+2778>
                                  <U+2777>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                              <U+275E>
                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                          <U+2466>
                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                          <U+2465>
                                                              <U+2766>           <U+2464>
                                                                          <U+2464>
                                          <U+2605>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                      <U+275C>
                                                              <U+2660>       <U+2763>
                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                      <U+275C>
                                                              <U+2767>           r
                                                      <U+275B>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                  <U+2741>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                                      <U+2775>
                                                                                  <U+2710>
                  <U+2740>
                                                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2776>
                                                                          <U+2463>
                  <U+273F>
                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                              <U+2766>
                                          <U+2725>
                  <U+273F>
                                                                          <U+2462>
                  <U+273E>
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                      <U+2774>
                  <U+273D>
                                                                                              <U+2469>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                      q
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2460>
                                          <U+2724>
                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                      <U+276A>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                          <U+2708>
                                          <U+2723>
                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                      <U+2663>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                          t
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                          s
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                              <U+275E>           r
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                          q
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                              P
                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                              <U+2730>
                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                      <U+273A>
                              <U+272F>
                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                          <U+2773>                   <U+2720>
                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                          <U+2772>
                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  |
                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                          <U+2771>
                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                              <U+272A>
                              <U+2729>
                          <U+2744>
                          <U+2743>
                      <U+2740>
                          <U+2742>

                                                      96/144
<removed-date>   <U+2734>
              <U+2733>
                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                       <U+2605>
                              <U+2723>
              <U+2732>
                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                       <U+271A>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                       <U+2718>
                              <U+2722>
                              <U+2727>
                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                      <U+25C6>           <U+276F>            <U+2772>
                              <U+2724>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                      <U+274F>           <U+274F>            <U+274F>
                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                                   <U+2714>
                              <U+2726>       <U+25BC>           <U+25BC>            <U+25BC>
                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                       <U+2717>
                              <U+2725>
                                      <U+25B2>           <U+25B2>            <U+25B2>
                                                                       <U+2719>
                              <U+2724>
                                      <U+2751>           <U+2751>            <U+2751>
                                                                       <U+2718>
                                      <U+274F>           <U+274F>            <U+274F>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                       <U+2717>
                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                             
                              <U+2722>
                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                           <U+2706>
                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                               <U+271E>
                  <U+272E>
                                  <U+273F>           <U+273F>            <U+273F>
                  <U+272D>
                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                           <U+2704>
                  <U+272C>
                                                                               <U+270E>
                                  <U+273F>           <U+273F>            <U+273F>
                                          <U+274D>
                  <U+272C>
                                          <U+2742>
                  <U+272B>
                                  <U+2740>           <U+2740>            <U+2740>
                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                       <U+275A>
                  <U+272A>
                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                          <U+25CF>
                                                       <U+2759>
                                  <U+273F>           <U+273F>            <U+273F>
                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                       <U+2744>
                                          <U+274B>
                                  <U+273F>           <U+273F>            <U+273E>
                                                       |
                                          <U+2746>
                                  <U+273F>           P            <U+2771>
                                                       <U+25D7>
                                                                   <U+274D>
                                          <U+274A>
                                  <U+273E>           <U+2756>            <U+2756>
                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                   <U+2742>
                                          <U+2749>
                                                                   <U+25CF>
                                  <U+273D>           <U+273D>            <U+273D>
                                                       <U+2748>
                                                                   <U+274B>
                                  <U+273C>           <U+273C>            <U+273C>
                                          <U+2748>
                                                       <U+2747>
                                  <U+273B>           <U+273B>            <U+273B>
                                                                   <U+2746>
                                          <U+2747>
                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                       <U+2746>
                                                       <U+2745>
                                  <U+273A>           <U+273A>            <U+273A>
                                          <U+2746>
                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                   <U+274A>
                                          <U+2745>
                                                                               <U+270C>
                                          <U+2744>
                                                                               <U+270C>
                                  <U+2739>           <U+2739>            <U+2739>
                                                       <U+2743>
                                                                   <U+2749>
                                                       <U+2742>
                                                                               <U+271F>
                                          <U+2743>
                                  <U+2738>           <U+2738>            <U+2738>
                                          <U+2742>
                                                       <U+2741>
                                                                               <U+261E>
                                  <U+2737>           <U+2737>            <U+2737>
                                                                   <U+2748>
                                          <U+2741>
                                                                   <U+2747>
                                  <U+2736>           <U+2736>            <U+2736>
                                                                   <U+2746>
                                  <U+2735>           <U+2735>            <U+2735>       <U+2745>
                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                   <U+2743>
                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                   <U+2742>
                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                   <U+2741>
                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                       <U+2715>
                              <U+271C>
                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                               <U+2721>
                              <U+271B>
                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                       <U+273F>
                              <U+271A>
                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                       <U+273E>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                       <U+273C>
                              <U+2717>
                              <U+2716>
                              <U+2715>
                          <U+2731>
                          <U+2730>
                      <U+272D>
                          <U+272F>

                                                              97/144
<removed-date>   <U+2464>
              <U+2463>
                                                                                                   q
                                                                                                   <U+2663>
                              <U+2763>
              <U+2462>
                                                                                   <U+271A>
                              <U+2710>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                   <U+271B>
                              <U+2762>
                                              <U+2605>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                   <U+271A>
                              <U+2766>
                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                   <U+2719>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                              <U+2726>
                              <U+2764>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                              <U+2725>
                              <U+2765>
                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                                      <U+2733>
                              <U+2710>
                                                                                   <U+2716>
                              <U+2764>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                   <U+2715>
                              <U+2763>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                                      <U+2732>
                              <U+2762>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2730>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                      <U+272F>
                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                   <U+271B>
                                                                                   <U+2724>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                   <U+2719>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                   <U+2724>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                   <U+2722>
                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                          <U+276A>
                                                                                   <U+271C>
                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                  <U+2708>
                                          <U+276C>
                  <U+2709>
                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                  r
                                          <U+2769>
                                                                                           <U+270E>
                  t
                  s
                                                                                           <U+270D>
                  r
                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                               |
                                          <U+2773>
                                                                       <U+2756>
                                                                               <U+2772>
                                                                       <U+2756>
                                                                       P
                                                                           <U+273E>
                                                                           <U+273D>
                                                                           <U+273C>
                                                                       <U+2756>
                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                           <U+273B>
                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                       <U+2756>
                                                          <U+2745>                    <U+2771>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                               <U+273F>
                                                                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2741>
                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                               <U+276F>
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2744>
                                                               <U+273E>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                       <U+25B2>
                                                                               <U+275A>
                                                               <U+2748>
                                                          <U+2743>
                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                       <U+2751>
                                                               <U+2747>
                                                                           <U+2748>
                                                          <U+2742>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                       <U+274F>
                                  <U+2467>
                                                                           <U+273E>
                                                               <U+2746>
                                                          <U+2741>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                  <U+2466>
                                                                       
                                  <U+2465>
                                                                           <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                       <U+274D>
                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                               <U+2759>
                              <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+25CF>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                      <U+2666>
                              <U+275E>
                                      <U+2665>
                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                               |
                              <U+275D>
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                      <U+2660>
                                                                       <U+274A>
                              <U+275C>
                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                           <U+273B>
                              <U+275B>
                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                      <U+2767>                                <U+2749>
                              <U+2775>
                                                                               <U+25D7>
                              <U+2774>
                              <U+276B>
                          <U+2461>
                          <U+2460>
                      <U+2709>
                          <U+2707>

                                                      98/144
<removed-date>   <U+273A>
              <U+2739>
                                                                               <U+272E>
                                                                               <U+272D>
                              <U+2605>
              <U+2738>
                                                               <U+2719>
                                                               <U+2719>
                              <U+272A>
                                                               <U+2717>
                              <U+2727>
                              <U+272C>
                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                           <U+261E>
                                      <U+2773>           <U+276C>
                              <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                                                                           <U+2713>
                                      <U+275A>           <U+275A>
                                                               <U+2717>
                                                                           <U+2713>
                              <U+272B>       <U+2772>           <U+2772>
                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                               <U+2716>
                              <U+272A>
                                      <U+2771>           <U+2771>
                                                               <U+2718>
                              <U+2729>
                                      <U+276F>           <U+276F>
                                                               <U+2717>
                                      <U+275A>           <U+275A>
                              <U+2605>
                                                               <U+2716>
                                                               <U+2715>
                                      <U+2759>           <U+2759>
                              <U+2727>
                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                       <U+271D>
                  <U+2734>
                                  <U+2749>           <U+2749>
                  <U+2733>
                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                   <U+2704>
                  <U+2732>
                                                                       <U+270D>
                                  <U+2749>           <U+2749>
                                          |            |
                  <U+2731>
                                          <U+25CF>            <U+25CF>
                  <U+2730>
                                  <U+274A>           <U+274A>
                                                                       <U+270C>
                  <U+272F>
                                          <U+25D7>            <U+25D7>                           <U+2702>
                                  <U+2749>           <U+2749>
                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                          P            P
                                  <U+2749>           <U+2748>
                                          <U+2751>            <U+2751>
                                  <U+2749>           <U+2769>
                                          <U+2756>            <U+2756>
                                  <U+2748>           <U+2768>
                                          <U+25C6>            <U+25C6>
                                  <U+2747>           <U+2747>
                                  <U+2746>           <U+2746>
                                          <U+25BC>            <U+25BC>
                                  <U+2745>           <U+2745>
                                          <U+25B2>            <U+25B2>
                                                                   <U+2721>
                                  <U+2744>           <U+2744>
                                          <U+2751>            <U+2751>
                                                                       <U+2720>
                                          <U+274F>            <U+274F>
                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                      
                                                                       <U+261E>
                                  <U+2743>           <U+2743>
                                          <U+274D>            <U+274D>               <U+271E>
                                  <U+2742>           <U+2742>
                                          <U+25CF>            <U+25CF>
                                                                       <U+261B>
                                  <U+2741>           <U+2741>
                                          <U+274B>            <U+274B>
                                  <U+2740>           <U+2740>
                                  <U+273F>           <U+273F>
                                                               <U+2719>
                                                               <U+2719>
                                                               <U+2717>
                                                               <U+2714>
                              <U+2726>
                                                               <U+2717>
                                                                       <U+2720>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                               <U+273E>
                              <U+2724>
                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                               <U+273D>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                               <U+273C>
                              <U+2722>
                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                               <U+273B>
                              <U+271C>
                              <U+271B>
                              <U+271A>
                          <U+2737>
                          <U+2736>
                      <U+2733>
                          <U+2735>

                                                          99/144
<removed-date>   <U+273A>
              <U+2739>
                                                                                               <U+2765>
                                                                                               <U+2710>
                              <U+2775>
              <U+2738>
                              <U+275C>
                                                  <U+2731>
                              <U+2774>
                                          <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                               <U+2719>
                              <U+275E>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                               <U+2718>
                                          <U+271B>
                                                                               <U+2717>
                              <U+275B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                               <U+2716>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                          <U+271A>
                                                                               <U+2716>
                              <U+275D>
                                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                  <U+272D>
                              <U+275C>
                                                                               <U+2715>
                              <U+275B>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                  <U+272D>
                              <U+2775>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                  <U+272C>
                              <U+2774>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                      <U+276F>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                      <U+275A>
                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                  <U+2734>
                  <U+2733>
                                                                                       <U+270F>
                  <U+2732>
                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                      <U+2759>                                                            <U+2704>
                  <U+2731>
                  <U+2730>
                                                                                       <U+270D>
                  <U+272F>
                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                      |
                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                           <U+2751>
                                                                   <U+274D>
                                                                           P
                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                   <U+274D>
                                                                   
                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                                   <U+274D>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                   <U+274D>
                                                      <U+273F>                    <U+2756>
                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                           <U+2739>
                                                                   <U+274D>
                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                      <U+273B>
                                                           <U+2736>
                                                                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                              <U+2733>
                                                                   <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                      <U+273E>
                                                           <U+2738>
                                              <U+2736>
                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                                           <U+25BC>
                                                           <U+2742>
                                                      <U+273D>
                                              <U+2735>
                                                                   <U+274A>
                                                           <U+2741>
                                                                       <U+2742>
                                                      <U+273C>
                                              <U+2734>
                                                                   <U+2749>
                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                           <U+2740>
                                                      <U+273B>
                                              <U+2733>
                                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                       <U+2733>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                   <U+2747>
                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                           <U+25B2>
                              <U+276B>
                                                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                  <U+2764>
                              <U+276A>
                                  <U+2763>
                                                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2751>
                              <U+276D>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                  <U+2762>
                                                                   <U+2744>
                              <U+276C>
                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                       <U+2735>
                              <U+2769>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                  <U+2761>                                <U+2743>
                              <U+2768>
                                                                           <U+274F>
                              <U+2773>
                              <U+2772>
                          <U+2737>
                          <U+2736>
                      <U+2733>
                          <U+2735>

                                                          100/144
<removed-date>   <U+273A>
              <U+2739>
                                                                                                <U+2762>
                                                                                                <U+2761>
                              <U+276D>
              <U+2738>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                              <U+276B>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                <U+2715>
                              <U+276C>
                                          <U+2719>
                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                              <U+2775>
                                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                          <U+2717>
                              <U+276A>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                <U+2712>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                          <U+2716>
                              <U+2774>
                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+2729>
                              <U+276B>
                                                                                <U+270F>
                              <U+276A>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                <U+270E>
                              <U+276D>
                                                  <U+271B>
                                                  <U+2605>
                              <U+276C>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                <U+2715>
                                                                                <U+2765>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                <U+2765>
                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                <U+2710>
                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                <U+2764>
                                                  <U+271B>
                                      |
                                                                                <U+2763>                   <U+2706>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                  <U+2734>
                                      P
                  <U+2733>
                                                                                        <U+2721>
                  <U+2732>
                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                  <U+2731>
                  <U+2730>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                  <U+272F>
                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+25CF>
                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                    <U+2749>
                                                                            <U+25B2>
                                                                    <U+2749>
                                                                    <U+274A>
                                                                        <U+2734>
                                                                        <U+2733>
                                                                        <U+2732>
                                                                    <U+2749>
                                              <U+2735>
                                                                        <U+2731>
                                                                    <U+2749>               <U+2706>
                                                      <U+273B>                     <U+2751>
                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                            <U+2735>
                                                                    <U+2749>
                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                            <U+2732>
                                                                            <U+274F>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                              <U+272F>
                                                                    <U+2748>
                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                      <U+273A>
                                                            <U+2734>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                    <U+2747>
                                                                            
                                                            <U+273E>
                                                      <U+2739>
                                              <U+2731>
                                                                    <U+2746>
                                                            <U+273D>
                                                                        <U+273E>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                              <U+2730>
                                                                    <U+2745>
                                                                        <U+2734>
                                                            <U+273C>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                              <U+272F>
                                                                    <U+2744>
                                                                        <U+272F>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                    <U+2743>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                            <U+274D>
                              <U+2769>
                                                                    <U+2742>
                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                  <U+275E>
                              <U+2768>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                                    <U+2741>
                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+25CF>
                              <U+2773>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                    <U+2740>
                              <U+2772>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                        <U+2731>
                              <U+2771>
                                  <U+275B>                                 <U+273F>
                              <U+276F>
                                                                            <U+274B>
                              <U+275A>
                              <U+2759>
                          <U+2737>
                          <U+2736>
                      <U+2733>
                          <U+2735>

                                                          101/144
<removed-date>   <U+2663>
              <U+2666>
                                                                                            <U+275E>
                                                                                            <U+275D>
                              <U+2769>
              <U+2665>
                              <U+276D>
                                                  <U+2729>
                              <U+2768>
                                          <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                              <U+276B>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                            <U+2718>
                                          <U+271B>
                                                                            <U+2717>
                              <U+276C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                          <U+271A>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                              <U+276A>
                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2725>
                              <U+276D>
                                                                            <U+2715>
                              <U+276C>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2725>
                              <U+2769>
                                                  <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2724>
                              <U+2768>
                                                  <U+2723>
                                                  <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2719>
                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                    <U+2715>
                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+2712>
                                                  <U+271B>
                                                  <U+271B>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                                  <U+2719>
                                                  <U+2718>
                                      P
                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                      <U+2756>
                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                      <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                  <U+2765>
                  <U+2710>
                                                                                    <U+2711>
                  <U+2764>
                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                      <U+25BC>                                                         <U+2704>
                  <U+2763>
                  <U+2762>
                                                                                    <U+270E>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                        <U+274A>
                                                                <U+2747>
                                                                        <U+274F>
                                      <U+2751>
                                                                <U+2747>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                                                    <U+2730>
                                                                    <U+272F>
                                                                    <U+272E>
                                                                <U+2747>
                                              <U+2731>
                                                                    <U+272D>
                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                                <U+2746>
                                                      <U+2737>                 
                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                              <U+2730>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                            <U+2731>
                                                                <U+2745>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                                            <U+272E>
                                                                        <U+274D>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                              <U+272B>
                                                                <U+2744>
                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                                            <U+2730>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                <U+2743>
                                                                        <U+25CF>
                                                            <U+273A>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                              <U+272D>
                                                                <U+2742>
                                                            <U+2739>
                                                                    <U+273A>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                              <U+272C>
                                                                <U+2741>
                                                                    <U+2730>
                                                            <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                              <U+272B>
                                                                <U+2740>
                                                                    <U+272B>
                                              <U+272A>
                                                                <U+273F>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                        <U+274B>
                              <U+2773>
                                                                <U+273E>
                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                  <U+275C>
                              <U+2772>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                                <U+273D>
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                        <U+274A>
                              <U+2771>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                  <U+2775>
                                                                <U+273C>
                              <U+276F>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                    <U+272D>
                              <U+275A>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                  <U+2774>                             <U+273B>
                              <U+2759>
                                                                        <U+2749>
                              |
                              <U+25D7>
                          <U+2660>
                          <U+2767>
                      <U+2710>
                          <U+2766>

                                                          102/144
<removed-date>   q
              <U+2663>
                                                                                                <U+2761>
                                                                                                <U+275E>
                              <U+276C>
              <U+2666>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                              <U+276A>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                <U+2715>
                              <U+2769>
                                          <U+2716>
                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                              <U+2774>
                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                          <U+2717>
                              <U+276D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                                                                <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                          <U+2716>
                              <U+276B>
                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+2726>
                              <U+276A>
                                                                                <U+270F>
                              <U+276D>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                <U+270E>
                              <U+276C>
                                                  <U+2718>
                                                  <U+2725>
                              <U+2769>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                  <U+2723>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                t
                                                                                s
                                                                                <U+2765>
                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                r
                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                <U+2765>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                <U+2710>
                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                <U+2764>
                                                  <U+2718>
                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                <U+2763>                   <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2717>
                                      P
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                  <U+2766>
                                      <U+2756>
                  <U+2765>
                                                                                        <U+2711>
                  <U+2710>
                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                  <U+2764>
                  <U+2763>
                                                                                        <U+270E>
                  <U+2762>
                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+274B>
                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                    <U+2748>
                                                                            <U+2751>
                                                                    <U+2748>
                                                                    <U+2749>
                                                                        <U+2731>
                                                                        <U+2730>
                                                                        <U+272F>
                                                                    <U+2748>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                        <U+272E>
                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                    <U+2747>
                                                      <U+2738>                     <U+274F>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                            <U+2732>
                                                                    <U+2746>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                                            <U+272F>
                                                                            
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                              <U+272C>
                                                                    <U+2745>
                                              <U+2730>
                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                            <U+2731>
                                              <U+272F>
                                                                    <U+2744>
                                                                            <U+274D>
                                                            <U+273B>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                    <U+2743>
                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                        <U+273B>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                              <U+272D>
                                                                    <U+2742>
                                                                        <U+2731>
                                                            <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                              <U+272C>
                                                                    <U+2741>
                                                                        <U+272C>
                                              <U+272B>
                                                                    <U+2740>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                            <U+25CF>
                              <U+2768>
                                                                    <U+273F>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                  <U+275D>
                              <U+2773>
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                    <U+273E>
                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+274B>
                              <U+2772>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                                    <U+273D>
                              <U+2771>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                        <U+272E>
                              <U+276F>
                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                  <U+2775>                                 <U+273C>
                              <U+275A>
                                                                            <U+274A>
                              <U+2759>
                              |
                          <U+2665>
                          <U+2660>
                      <U+2765>
                          <U+2767>

                                  103/144
<removed-date>   q
              <U+2663>
                                                        <U+272E>
                                                        <U+272D>
                              <U+2605>
              <U+2666>
                                            <U+2719>
                                            <U+2719>
                              <U+272A>
                                            <U+2717>
                              <U+2727>
                              <U+272C>
                                                    <U+261B>
                                            <U+2714>
                                                    <U+2713>
                              <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                                                    <U+2712>
                                            <U+2717>
                                                    <U+2712>
                              <U+272B>
                                                    <U+261E>
                                            <U+2716>
                              <U+272A>
                                            <U+2718>
                              <U+2729>
                                            <U+2717>
                              <U+2605>
                                            <U+2716>
                                            <U+2715>
                              <U+2727>
                                            <U+2714>
                                                <U+2712>
                                                <U+2711>
                                                <U+270F>
                                                <U+2720>
                                                <U+270E>
                                                            <U+271D>
                                                            <U+2706>
                                                <U+271F>
                                                            <U+260E>
                  <U+2766>
                  <U+2765>
                                                <U+270D>
                  <U+2710>
                                                <U+270C>
                                                            <U+2704>
                  <U+2764>
                  <U+2763>
                                                <U+261E>
                  <U+2762>
                                                            <U+2702>
                                                            <U+2701>
                                                <U+261B>
                                                <U+2713>
                                                <U+2713>
                                                <U+2720>
                                                <U+2733>
                                            <U+2719>
                                            <U+2719>
                                            <U+2717>
                                            <U+2714>
                              <U+2726>
                                            <U+2717>
                                                <U+261B>
                              <U+2725>
                                                <U+2721>
                                                <U+271F>
                                            <U+2732>
                              <U+2724>
                                                <U+2720>
                                            <U+2731>
                              <U+2723>
                                                <U+271F>
                                            <U+2730>
                              <U+2722>
                                                <U+271E>
                                            <U+272F>
                              <U+271C>
                              <U+271B>
                              <U+271A>
                          <U+2665>
                          <U+2660>
                      <U+2765>
                          <U+2767>

                                                                  104/144
<removed-date>   <U+2773>
              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                              <U+2748>
              <U+2771>
                              <U+274A>
                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                              <U+2747>
                                              <U+2726>
                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2774>
                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                              <U+2724>
                              <U+2749>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                              <U+2723>
                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                          <U+276A>
                                                          <U+276D>
                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                              <U+2749>
                                                          <U+276A>
                                                          <U+276D>
                              <U+2748>
                                                          <U+276C>
                                                          <U+2769>
                              <U+2747>
                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                      <U+2740>
                                          <U+277C>
                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+2460>
                                          <U+277B>
                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                          <U+277A>
                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                              <U+2469>
                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                              <U+2462>
                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                              <U+2468>
                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                      <U+2747>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                              r
                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                  t
                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                              <U+2467>
                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                      <U+273B>
                                                                  r
                                      <U+273D>
                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                              <U+2466>
                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                  |
                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                              <U+2465>
                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                      <U+273C>
                                                      <U+2766>           <U+2666>
                  P
                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                              <U+2464>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                  <U+25C6>
                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                  s
                                                      <U+2765>
                  <U+25C6>
                                      <U+273B>
                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                  r
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                      <U+273A>
                                                                              <U+2460>
                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                              <U+2463>
                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                      <U+2739>
                                                                  q
                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                              <U+2462>
                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                              <U+2461>
                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                  <U+2730>           <U+2778>
                                                                          <U+2779>
                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                              <U+2777>
                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                      <U+2729>
                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                      <U+2605>
                              <U+2745>
                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                  <U+274F>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                  <U+272E>
                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                  
                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                  <U+274D>
                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                              <U+2740>
                              <U+273F>
                          <U+276F>
                          <U+275A>
                      <U+25D7>
                          <U+2759>

                                                          105/144
<removed-date>   <U+2707>
              <U+2708>
                                                                                            <U+2767>
                                                                                            <U+2766>
                              <U+275C>
              <U+2709>
                              <U+275E>
                                                  <U+2735>
                              <U+275B>
                                          <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                            <U+271A>
                              <U+2762>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2734>
                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                                          <U+2724>
                                                                            <U+2718>
                              <U+275D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                            <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                          <U+2723>
                                                                            <U+2717>
                              <U+2761>
                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2732>
                                                  <U+2731>
                              <U+275E>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                              <U+275D>
                                                  <U+2732>
                                                  <U+2731>
                              <U+275C>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                  <U+2730>
                              <U+275B>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                    <U+2715>
                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+2712>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                            <U+2722>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                            <U+2718>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                            <U+271C>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                            <U+271B>
                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                  q
                                      <U+2771>
                  <U+2663>
                                                                                    <U+2711>
                  <U+2666>
                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                                                <U+2704>
                  <U+2660>
                  <U+2665>
                                                                                    <U+270E>
                  <U+2660>
                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                        <U+25BC>
                                      <U+2759>
                                                                <U+274A>
                                                                        |
                                                                    <U+273C>
                                                                <U+2751>
                                                                    <U+273B>
                                                                    <U+273A>
                                                                <U+274F>
                                              <U+273D>
                                                                    <U+2739>
                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                      <U+2743>                 <U+25D7>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                            <U+273D>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                      <U+273F>
                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                <U+274B>       P
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                
                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                      <U+2742>
                                                            <U+273C>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                                <U+274D>
                                                                        <U+2756>
                                                            <U+2746>
                                                      <U+2741>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                            <U+2745>
                                                                    <U+2746>
                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                                    <U+273C>
                                                            <U+2744>
                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                <U+274B>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2737>
                                              <U+2736>
                                                                <U+274A>
                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                        <U+25C6>
                              <U+2775>
                                                                <U+2749>
                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                  <U+2765>
                              <U+2774>
                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                        <U+25BC>
                              <U+276B>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                  <U+2764>
                              <U+276A>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                <U+2747>
                                                                    <U+2739>
                              <U+276D>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                  <U+2763>
                              <U+276C>
                                                                        <U+25B2>
                              <U+2769>
                              <U+2768>
                          t
                          s
                      <U+2663>
                          r

                                                                      106/144
<removed-date>   
              <U+274D>
                                                                                                                       <U+2743>
                                                                                                                       <U+2742>
                              <U+2739>
              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                              <U+273B>
                                                          |
                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                              <U+2738>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                          <U+25D7>
                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                              <U+2727>
                              <U+273A>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                          P
                                                                                                                   <U+2715>
                                              <U+2726>
                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2756>
                                                          <U+25C6>
                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                       <U+2717>
                                                          <U+2756>
                              <U+273A>
                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                              <U+2739>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+25B2>
                              <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2751>
                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                  <U+277C>
                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                  <U+277B>
                                  <U+277A>
                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                       <U+2767>
                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                           <U+2776>
                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                           <U+2469>
                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                              t
                                                                       <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                           <U+2468>
                                                              <U+2663>            <U+2467>
                                                                                                       <U+2724>
                                                                           <U+2467>
                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                              s
                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                      <U+2763>
                                                              r        <U+2767>
                                                      <U+2763>
                                                              q            <U+2707>
                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                       <U+2722>                   <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2762>
                                                              q
                                                                                   q
                                                                           <U+2465>
                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                  <U+2748>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                          <U+272D>
                  <U+2747>
                                                                           <U+2465>
                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                               <U+2779>
                                                                           <U+2466>
                  <U+2746>
                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                   <U+2663>
                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                  <U+2744>
                                                                           <U+2465>
                  <U+2745>
                                                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                   <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                      <U+275E>
                  <U+2744>
                                                                                               <U+2778>
                                          <U+272B>
                                                                           <U+2465>
                                                                                       <U+2708>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                           <U+2465>
                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                           <U+2464>
                                          <U+272A>
                                                      <U+275C>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                           <U+2463>
                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                           <U+2462>
                                                                       <U+2709>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                       <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                           <U+2461>
                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                           <U+2460>
                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                              <U+2710>            <U+2707>
                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                       <U+2767>
                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                           <U+2708>
                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                   <U+276D>
                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                               <U+2772>
                                                                                                   <U+275A>
                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                           <U+2775>
                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                   <U+276C>
                                                                                           <U+2774>
                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                           <U+276B>
                              <U+2736>
                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                   <U+2769>
                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                           <U+276A>
                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                   <U+2768>
                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                      <U+273E>
                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                   <U+2773>
                              <U+2731>
                              <U+2730>
                          <U+274B>
                          <U+274A>
                      <U+2747>
                          <U+2749>

                                                              107/144
<removed-date>   <U+2765>
              <U+2710>
                                                                                                <U+2774>
                                                                                                <U+276B>
                              <U+276F>
              <U+2764>
                                                                                <U+271B>
                              <U+2772>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                <U+271C>
                              <U+275A>
                                              <U+2729>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                <U+271B>
                              <U+2768>
                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                                <U+271A>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                              <U+2727>
                              <U+2771>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                                                                <U+2719>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                              <U+2726>
                              <U+2773>
                                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                                      <U+2734>
                              <U+2772>
                                                                                <U+2717>
                              <U+2771>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                <U+2716>
                              <U+276F>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                      <U+2733>
                              <U+275A>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                      <U+272F>
                                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                      <U+272F>
                                                                                <U+271B>
                                                                                <U+271C>
                                                                                <U+2725>
                                                      <U+272F>
                                                                                <U+271A>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                <U+2725>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                <U+2724>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                <U+2723>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                <U+2722>                   <U+2706>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                  <U+275E>
                                          
                  <U+275D>
                                                                                        <U+2711>
                  <U+275C>
                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                  <U+2775>
                  <U+275B>
                                                                                        <U+270E>
                  <U+2775>
                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+2745>
                                          <U+274B>
                                                                    <U+2707>
                                                                            <U+274A>
                                                                        <U+273F>
                                                                    <U+2465>
                                                                        <U+273E>
                                                                        <U+273D>
                                                                    <U+2464>
                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                        <U+273C>
                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                          s                 <U+2749>
                                                                    <U+2709>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                <U+2740>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                <U+273D>
                                                                    <U+2460>       <U+2748>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                    <U+2463>
                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                          r
                                                                <U+273F>
                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                    <U+2462>
                                                                            <U+2747>
                                                                <U+2743>
                                                          q
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                <U+2742>
                                                                        <U+2743>
                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                    <U+2461>
                                                  <U+273B>
                                  <U+2660>
                                                                        <U+273F>
                                                                <U+2741>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                    <U+2460>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                  <U+2767>
                                  <U+2766>
                                                                        <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                    <U+2707>
                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                            <U+2746>
                              <U+2759>
                                                                    <U+2708>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                      <U+276A>
                              |
                                      <U+276D>
                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                    <U+2709>
                                      <U+276D>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+2745>
                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                      <U+276C>
                              P
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                    t
                                                                        <U+273C>
                              <U+2756>
                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                      <U+2769>
                              <U+25C6>
                                                                            <U+2744>
                              <U+25BC>
                              <U+25B2>
                          <U+2763>
                          <U+2762>
                      <U+275D>
                          <U+2761>

                                                      108/144
<removed-date>   <U+273B>
              <U+273A>
                                                                                <U+2730>
                                                                                <U+272F>
                              <U+272A>
              <U+2739>
                                                                <U+271B>
                                                                <U+271B>
                              <U+272C>
                                                                <U+2719>
                              <U+2729>
                              <U+272E>
                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                <U+2716>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                                      <U+2772>           <U+2762>
                              <U+272B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                            <U+2715>
                                      <U+2759>           <U+2759>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                                                            <U+2715>
                              <U+272D>       <U+2771>           <U+2771>
                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                <U+2718>
                              <U+272C>
                                      <U+276F>           <U+276F>
                                                                <U+271A>
                              <U+272B>
                                      <U+275A>           <U+275A>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                      <U+2759>           <U+2759>
                              <U+272A>
                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                <U+2717>
                                      |           |
                              <U+2729>
                                                                <U+2716>
                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                  <U+2735>
                                              <U+2775>
                  <U+2734>
                                                                        <U+2711>
                                  <U+2743>
                  <U+2733>
                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                              <U+2775>
                                                        <U+2761>
                  <U+2731>
                                                        <U+274B>
                  <U+2732>
                                              <U+275B>
                                                                        <U+270E>
                                  <U+2749>
                                          <U+25D7>
                  <U+2731>
                                                        <U+275E>
                                          P
                                              <U+2775>
                                  <U+2748>
                                          
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                        <U+275D>
                                          <U+274D>
                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                  <U+2741>
                                          <U+2756>
                                                        <U+274F>
                                              <U+2775>
                                          <U+25C6>
                                  <U+2744>
                                  <U+2747>
                                                        <U+275C>
                                              <U+2774>
                                          <U+25BC>
                                  <U+2746>                     <U+25BC>
                                              <U+276B>
                                          <U+25B2>
                                              <U+276A>
                                  <U+2745>
                                                        <U+25B2>
                                          <U+2751>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                        <U+2751>
                                          <U+274F>
                                                                    <U+261E>
                                  <U+2744>
                                          
                                              <U+276D>
                                                        <U+274F>
                                          <U+274D>
                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                        
                                  <U+2743>
                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                        <U+274D>
                                                                        <U+270D>
                                              <U+276C>
                                          <U+25CF>
                                          <U+274B>
                                                        <U+25CF>
                                  <U+2742>                                     <U+2720>
                                              <U+2769>
                                                        <U+274B>
                                          <U+274A>
                                                                        <U+270C>
                                  <U+2741>
                                              <U+2768>
                                                        <U+274A>
                                              <U+2742>
                                  <U+2740>
                                              <U+2773>
                                                                <U+271B>
                                                                <U+271B>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                                                <U+2716>
                              <U+2605>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                                                        <U+261B>
                              <U+2727>
                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                <U+273F>
                              <U+2726>
                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                <U+273E>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                <U+273D>
                              <U+2724>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                <U+273C>
                              <U+2723>
                              <U+2722>
                              <U+271C>
                          <U+2738>
                          <U+2737>
                      <U+2734>
                          <U+2736>

                                                              109/144
<removed-date>   <U+2660>
              <U+2767>
                                                                                                    <U+275C>
                                                                                                    <U+275B>
                              <U+2773>
              <U+2766>
                                                                                    <U+271B>
                              <U+2769>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                    <U+271C>
                              <U+2772>
                                              <U+2729>
                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                    <U+271B>
                              <U+276D>
                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                    <U+271A>
                                                      <U+2605>
                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                              <U+2727>
                              <U+2768>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                <U+2714>
                                              <U+2726>
                              <U+276C>
                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2726>
                                                      <U+2725>
                              <U+2769>
                                                                                    <U+2717>
                              <U+2768>
                                                      <U+2726>
                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                    <U+2716>
                              <U+2773>
                                                      <U+2717>
                                                      <U+2724>
                              <U+2772>
                                                      <U+2723>
                                                      <U+2722>
                                                      <U+2719>
                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                                            <U+2713>
                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                            <U+2712>
                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                                            <U+2711>
                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                    <U+271B>
                                                                                    <U+271C>
                                                                                    <U+2725>
                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                    <U+271A>
                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                    <U+2725>
                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                    <U+2715>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                    <U+2723>
                                                      <U+2717>
                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                    <U+2722>
                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+2763>
                                          <U+25B2>
                  <U+2762>
                                                                                            <U+270F>
                  <U+2761>
                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                  <U+275D>
                  <U+275E>
                                                                                            <U+270D>
                  <U+275D>
                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                <U+2748>
                                          
                                                                        <U+2745>
                                                                                <U+274D>
                                                                        <U+2745>
                                                                        <U+2746>
                                                                            <U+2730>
                                                                            <U+272F>
                                                                            <U+272E>
                                                                        <U+2745>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                            <U+272D>
                                                                        <U+2745>               <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2737>                     <U+25CF>
                                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                                <U+2731>
                                                                        <U+2745>
                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                <U+272E>
                                                                                <U+274B>
                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                        <U+2744>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                <U+2730>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                        <U+2743>
                                                                                <U+274A>
                                                                <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2735>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                        <U+2742>
                                                                <U+2739>
                                                                            <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2734>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                        <U+2741>
                                  <U+2663>
                                                                            <U+2730>
                                                                <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2733>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                        <U+2740>
                                  <U+2665>
                                                                            <U+272B>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                        <U+273F>
                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                <U+2749>
                              <U+2771>
                                                                        <U+273E>
                                                                                            <U+2721>
                                      <U+2775>
                              <U+276F>
                                      <U+2774>
                                                                        <U+273D>
                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                      <U+2774>
                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                <U+2748>
                              <U+275A>
                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                      <U+276B>
                                                                        <U+273C>
                              <U+2759>
                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                            <U+272D>
                              |
                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                      <U+276A>                                 <U+273B>
                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                <U+2747>
                              P
                              <U+2756>
                          <U+2765>
                          <U+2710>
                      <U+2762>
                          <U+2764>

                                                                      110/144
<removed-date>   <U+25CF>
              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                              <U+2737>
              <U+274A>
                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                              <U+2739>
                                                          P
                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                              <U+2736>
                                                          <U+2751>
                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                          <U+2756>
                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                              <U+2725>
                              <U+2738>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                       <U+2717>
                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                              <U+2724>
                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                          <U+25B2>
                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                          <U+25BC>
                              <U+2738>
                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                              <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2751>
                                                          <U+274F>
                              <U+2736>
                                                          
                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                  <U+277C>
                                  <U+277B>
                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2778>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                       <U+2767>
                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                           <U+2777>
                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                           <U+2776>
                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                              t
                                                                       <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                           <U+2469>
                                                              <U+2663>            <U+2468>
                                                                                                       <U+2722>
                                                                           <U+2468>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                              s
                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                      <U+2763>
                                                              r        <U+2767>
                                                      <U+2763>
                                                              q            <U+2707>
                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2762>
                                                              q
                                                                                   q
                                                                           <U+2466>
                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                  <U+2746>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                   <U+2665>
                                          <U+272B>
                  <U+2745>
                                                                           <U+2466>
                                                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                               <U+277A>
                                                                           <U+2467>
                  <U+2744>
                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                   <U+2663>
                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                  <U+2742>
                                                                           <U+2466>
                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                   <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                      <U+275E>
                  <U+2742>
                                                                                               <U+2779>
                                          <U+2729>
                                                                           <U+2466>
                                                                                       <U+2708>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                           <U+2465>
                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                           <U+2464>
                                          <U+2605>
                                                      <U+275C>
                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                           <U+2463>
                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                           <U+2462>
                                                                       <U+2709>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                       <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                           <U+2461>
                                                              <U+2765>
                                                                           <U+2460>
                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                              <U+2710>            <U+2707>
                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                       <U+2767>
                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                           <U+2708>
                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                   <U+2769>
                                                  |
                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                               <U+276F>
                                                                                           <U+2775>
                                                                                                   |
                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                           <U+2774>
                                                                                                   <U+2768>
                              <U+2735>
                                                                                           <U+276B>
                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                      <U+273F>
                              <U+2734>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                           <U+276A>                   <U+271F>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                   <U+2773>
                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                           <U+276D>
                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                   <U+2772>
                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                           <U+276C>
                              <U+2730>
                                                                                                   <U+2771>
                              <U+272F>
                              <U+272E>
                          <U+2749>
                          <U+2748>
                      <U+2745>
                          <U+2747>

                                                      111/144
<removed-date>   <U+2735>
              <U+2734>
                                                                                            <U+2729>
                                                                                            <U+2605>
                              <U+2723>
              <U+2733>
                                                                            <U+271B>
                                                                            <U+271B>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                              <U+2722>
                              <U+2727>
                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                      <U+275A>           <U+2775>                 <U+2775>
                              <U+2724>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                      P           P                 P
                                                                            <U+2719>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                              <U+2726>       <U+2759>           <U+2759>                 <U+2759>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                            <U+2718>
                              <U+2725>
                                      |           |                 |
                                                                            <U+271A>
                              <U+2724>
                                      <U+25D7>           <U+25D7>                 <U+25D7>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                                      P           P                 P
                              <U+2723>
                                                                            <U+2718>
                                                                            <U+2717>
                                      <U+2756>           <U+2756>                 <U+2756>
                              <U+2722>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                                                    <U+2712>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                  <U+272F>
                                              <U+276B>                 <U+276B>
                  <U+272E>
                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                  <U+2740>
                  <U+272D>
                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                              <U+276B>                 <U+276B>
                  <U+272C>
                  <U+272B>
                                              <U+2774>                 <U+2774>
                                          <U+25C6>             <U+25C6>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                          <U+2748>             <U+2748>
                  <U+272A>
                                                                        <U+2761>
                                  <U+2746>
                                              <U+276B>                 <U+276B>
                                          <U+25BC>             <U+25BC>
                                                                        <U+275E>
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                        <U+274B>
                                  <U+2745>
                                                                        <U+274A>
                                              <U+276B>                 <U+276B>
                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                          <U+25B2>             <U+25B2>
                                                                        <U+275D>
                                  <U+273E>
                                              <U+276A>
                                                                <U+276B>
                                          <U+25CF>             <U+25CF>
                                                                        <U+275C>
                                  <U+2741>
                                              <U+276D>             <U+275B>
                                  <U+2744>
                                          <U+2751>             <U+2751>
                                                                        <U+274F>
                                              <U+276C>                 <U+276C>
                                          <U+274F>             <U+274F>
                                  <U+2743>
                                                                        
                                              <U+2769>                 <U+2769>
                                              <U+2745>                 <U+2745>
                                  <U+2742>
                                                       
                                                                        <U+274D>
                                                                                <U+261B>
                                          <U+274D>             <U+274D>
                                                                        <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2768>                 <U+2768>
                                  <U+2741>
                                                                        <U+274B>
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                        <U+274A>
                                          <U+25CF>             <U+25CF>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                          <U+274B>             <U+274B>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                              <U+2773>                 <U+2773>
                                  <U+2740>
                                          <U+274A>             <U+274A>
                                                                        <U+2749>
                                                                        <U+2748>           <U+271F>
                                              <U+2772>                 <U+2772>
                                          <U+2749>             <U+2749>
                                  <U+273F>
                                          <U+2748>             <U+2748>
                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                        <U+2747>
                                              <U+2771>                 <U+2771>
                                  <U+273E>
                                          <U+2747>             <U+2747>
                                              <U+273F>                 <U+273F>
                                  <U+273D>
                                              <U+276F>                 <U+276F>
                                                                            <U+273C>
                                                                            <U+273C>
                                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                            <U+273B>
                              <U+271C>
                                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                              <U+271B>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                            <U+2739>
                              <U+271A>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+2738>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                            <U+2737>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+2736>
                              <U+2717>
                              <U+2716>
                              <U+2715>
                          <U+2732>
                          <U+2731>
                      <U+272E>
                          <U+2730>

                                                          112/144
<removed-date>   <U+2735>
              <U+2734>
                                                                                            <U+2766>
                                                                                            <U+2765>
                              <U+275B>
              <U+2733>
                              <U+275D>
                                                  <U+2731>
                              <U+2775>
                                          <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                              <U+2761>
                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                            <U+2718>
                                          <U+271B>
                                                                            <U+2717>
                              <U+275C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                          <U+271A>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                              <U+275E>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                  <U+272D>
                              <U+275D>
                                                                            <U+2715>
                              <U+275C>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                  <U+272D>
                              <U+275B>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                  <U+272C>
                              <U+2775>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                    <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                      <U+2771>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                      <U+276F>
                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                  <U+272F>
                  <U+272E>
                                                                                    <U+270F>
                  <U+272D>
                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                      <U+275A>                                                         <U+2704>
                  <U+272C>
                  <U+272B>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                        <U+25B2>
                                                                
                                                                        <U+25D7>
                                      |
                                                                
                                                                <U+274F>
                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2736>
                                                                
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                    <U+2735>
                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                                
                                                      <U+273F>                 P
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                            <U+2739>
                                                                <U+274D>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                      <U+273B>
                                                            <U+2736>
                                                                        <U+2756>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                              <U+2733>
                                                                <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                      <U+273E>
                                                            <U+2738>
                                              <U+2736>
                                                                <U+274B>
                                                                        <U+25C6>
                                                            <U+2742>
                                                      <U+273D>
                                              <U+2735>
                                                                <U+274A>
                                                            <U+2741>
                                                                    <U+2742>
                                                      <U+273C>
                                              <U+2734>
                                                                <U+2749>
                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                            <U+2740>
                                                      <U+273B>
                                              <U+2733>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                                                    <U+2733>
                                              <U+2732>
                                                                <U+2747>
                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                        <U+25BC>
                              <U+2774>
                                                                <U+2746>
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                  <U+2710>
                              <U+276B>
                                  <U+2764>
                                                                <U+2745>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                  <U+2764>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                        <U+25B2>
                              <U+276A>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                  <U+2763>
                                                                <U+2744>
                              <U+276D>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                    <U+2735>
                              <U+276C>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                  <U+2762>                             <U+2743>
                              <U+2769>
                                                                        <U+2751>
                              <U+2768>
                              <U+2773>
                          <U+2732>
                          <U+2731>
                      <U+272E>
                          <U+2730>

                                                          113/144
<removed-date>   <U+2736>
              <U+2735>
                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                              <U+2724>
              <U+2734>
                              <U+2726>
                              <U+2723>
                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                              <U+2725>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                          <U+2666>
                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2665>
                              <U+2726>
                                                          <U+2660>
                              <U+2725>
                                                          <U+2767>
                              <U+2724>
                                                                              s
                                                                              r
                              <U+2723>
                                              <U+2765>
                                                          <U+2767>
                                                          <U+2766>                               t
                                                                              q
                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                  <U+2723>   <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                      <U+274A>
                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                  <U+2730>
                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                      |
                  <U+272F>                                               <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                  <U+2719>
                                      <U+25D7>
                                                  <U+2741>
                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                      P
                  <U+272D>
                                                              <U+274A>
                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                  <U+2740>
                  <U+272B>
                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                              <U+2747>
                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                              <U+2745>
                                                                      
                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                              <U+2743>
                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                  <U+275A>
                                                      <U+2774>
                                  <U+275A>
                                          <U+2764>
                                                      <U+276B>
                                          <U+275B>
                                  <U+2759>
                                                      <U+276A>
                                          <U+2763>
                                                      <U+276D>
                                                      <U+276C>
                                          <U+2762>
                                          <U+2761>
                              <U+2722>
                                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                          <U+275E>
                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2769>
                              <U+271B>
                                          <U+275C>
                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                          <U+275C>
                                                      <U+2768>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                              <U+2718>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                      <U+2773>
                              <U+2717>
                                          <U+2775>
                                                      <U+2772>
                              <U+2716>
                              <U+2715>
                          <U+2733>
                          <U+2732>
                      <U+272F>
                          <U+2731>

                                                          114/144
<removed-date>   q
              <U+2663>
                                                                                            <U+2761>
                                                                                            <U+275E>
                              <U+276C>
              <U+2666>
                              <U+276A>
                                                  <U+2734>
                              <U+2769>
                                          <U+2725>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                              <U+2774>
                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2733>
                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                            <U+2718>
                                          <U+2723>
                                                                            <U+2717>
                              <U+276D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                          <U+2722>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                              <U+276B>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                  <U+2730>
                              <U+276A>
                                                                            <U+2715>
                              <U+276D>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                  <U+2730>
                              <U+276C>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+272F>
                              <U+2769>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                    <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                            <U+271C>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                            <U+2717>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                            <U+271B>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                            <U+271A>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                      <U+2768>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                      <U+2773>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                  <U+2766>
                                      <U+2772>
                  <U+2765>
                                                                                    <U+270F>
                  <U+2710>
                                      <U+2771>
                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                                                <U+2704>
                  <U+2764>
                  <U+2763>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                  <U+2762>
                                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                        <U+25C6>
                                      <U+275A>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                                                        <U+2759>
                                                                <U+25B2>
                                                                    <U+273B>
                                                                    <U+273A>
                                                                    <U+2739>
                                                                <U+2751>
                                              <U+273C>
                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                                <U+274F>
                                                      <U+2742>                 |
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                            <U+273C>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                
                                                      <U+273E>
                                                            <U+2739>
                                                                        <U+25D7>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                <U+274D>
                                              <U+2736>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                      <U+2741>
                                                            <U+273B>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                <U+25CF>
                                                                        P
                                                            <U+2745>
                                                      <U+2740>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                                <U+274B>
                                                            <U+2744>
                                                                    <U+2745>
                                                      <U+273F>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                <U+274A>
                                                                    <U+273B>
                                                            <U+2743>
                                                      <U+273E>
                                              <U+2736>
                                                                <U+274A>
                                                                    <U+2736>
                                              <U+2735>
                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                <U+2749>
                                                                        <U+2756>
                              <U+2462>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                              <U+2461>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                  <U+275D>
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                <U+2747>
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                              <U+2460>
                                                                        <U+25C6>
                              <U+2707>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                  <U+275B>
                              <U+2708>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                <U+2746>
                              <U+2709>
                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                  <U+2775>
                              t
                                                                        <U+25BC>
                              s
                              r
                          <U+2665>
                          <U+2660>
                      <U+2765>
                          <U+2767>

                                              115/144
<removed-date>   <U+2744>
              <U+2743>
                                                                                <U+2739>
                                                                                <U+2738>
                              <U+2733>
              <U+2742>
                              <U+2735>
                              <U+2732>
                              <U+2737>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                            <U+2719>
                              <U+2734>
<removed-apn>
                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                            <U+2751>
                                                                            <U+2714>
                              <U+2736>                             <U+274F>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                              <U+2735>
                                                            
                              <U+2734>
                              <U+2733>
                              <U+2732>
                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                            <U+2719>
                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                               <U+2756>
                                                            <U+2718>
                                                                        <U+2711>
                                               <U+25C6>
                                                            <U+2716>
                                                            <U+2717>
                                               <U+25BC>
                                                            <U+2716>
                                               <U+25B2>
                                                            <U+2715>
                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                  <U+273E>
                  <U+273D>
                                                                        <U+270F>
                  <U+273A>
                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                  <U+273C>
                  <U+273B>
                                                                        <U+270D>
                  <U+273A>
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                <U+272F>
                                  <U+275A>
                                                                <U+2731>
                                                                <U+2730>
                                  <U+2773>
                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                <U+272D>
                                      <U+2774>
                                                                <U+2730>
                                  <U+2772>
                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                        <U+270C>
                                  <U+2771>                                     <U+270C>
                                      <U+276B>
                                                                <U+272F>
                                                   <U+271B>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                          <U+2725>
                                                        <U+2727>
                                  <U+276F>
                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                                <U+272E>
                                      <U+276A>
                                                   <U+271A>
                                                        <U+2726>
                                      <U+276D>
                                  <U+275A>
                                                                <U+272D>
                                                        <U+2725>
                                                   <U+2722>
                                      <U+276C>
                                                                <U+272C>
                                                   <U+271C>
                                  <U+2759>
                                                        <U+2724>
                                      <U+2769>
                                                                <U+272B>
                                                   <U+271B>
                                          <U+2725>
                                  |
                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                <U+272B>
                                      <U+2768>
                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                <U+272A>
                              <U+274D>
                                                                <U+2729>
                                                                        <U+2721>
                              <U+25CF>
                                  P
                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                <U+2605>
                              <U+274B>
                              <U+274A>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                              <U+2749>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                              <U+2748>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                              <U+2747>
                              <U+2746>
                              <U+2745>
                          <U+2741>
                          <U+2740>
                      <U+273D>
                          <U+273F>

                                                  116/144
<removed-date>   <U+2732>
              <U+2731>
                          <U+271C>
                                                                                               <U+2727>
                                                                                               <U+2726>
              <U+2730>
                          <U+2723>
                          <U+271B>
                          <U+2725>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                           <U+273F>
                          <U+2722>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                           <U+273E>
                                                                                           <U+2714>
                          <U+2724>
                                                                           <U+273D>
                                                                                           <U+270D>
                          <U+2723>
                                                                           <U+273C>
                          <U+2722>
                          <U+271C>
                          <U+271B>
                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                       <U+2712>
                                              <U+25D7>
                                                   <U+2771>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                              <U+276F>
                                                       |
                                                                                       <U+2711>
                                              <U+2756>
                                                       <U+25D7>
                                              <U+2751>
                                                                       <U+2767>
                                      <U+2763>
                                                       P
                                              <U+275A>
                                      <U+2762>
                                              <U+25BC>
                                      <U+2761>
                                                       <U+25D7>
                                                                       <U+2766>
                                              <U+2751>
                                                       <U+276F>
                                      <U+275C>
                                              <U+274D>
                                      <U+275D>
                                      <U+275C>
                                              <U+25BC>
                                                   <U+2773>
                                                               <U+2769>
                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                      <U+275E>
                                                       <U+2756>
                                                                   <U+2756>
                                                       <U+276F>
                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                   <U+2751>
                                      <U+276A>
                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                      <U+275D>
                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                   <U+25D7>
                                                       <U+2751>
                                      <U+275C>       |
                                                               <U+2771>
                                                                                       <U+271E>
                  <U+272C>                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                       <U+25BC>
                                              <U+25D7>
                                      <U+276A>
                              <U+2765>
                                                                   <U+276F>
                  <U+272B>
                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                   <U+2772>
                              <U+2710>
                                              P
                  <U+2605>
                                      <U+275B>
                                                               <U+2768>                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                              <U+2764>
                                                       
                  <U+272A>
                  <U+2729>
                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                   <U+2756>
                                      <U+276A>
                                              <U+2756>
                  <U+2605>
                                                       <U+2756>
                                                               <U+2771>
                                              <U+25C6>
                                                               <U+2771>
                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                       <U+2751>
                                      <U+2775>
                                                       <U+2751>
                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                   |
                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                       <U+25BC>
                                      <U+2774>
                                                               <U+2772>
                                              <U+25B2>
                                                   <U+2772>
                                      <U+276B>
                                              <U+2751>
                                              <U+2751>
                                                       <U+2756>
                                      <U+276A>
                                              <U+274D>
                                  <U+2744>
                                                       <U+2759>
                                      <U+276D>                <U+274D>
                                              <U+274F>
                                                                       <U+2766>
                                                       <U+2756>
                                  <U+2748>
                                      <U+276C>
                                              
                                                   <U+2772>
                                              <U+274D>
                                                                       <U+2660>
                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                       <U+2756>
                                  <U+2747>
                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                   <U+2771>
                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                  <U+2746>
                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                  <U+2744>
                                  <U+2743>
                                                                               <U+271A>
                                                           <U+2716>
                                          <U+274A>
                                  <U+2742>
                                          <U+2749>
                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                               <U+271A>
                                  <U+2741>
                                                                               <U+2719>
                          <U+273B>
                                                                               <U+2718>
                                                                                       <U+2721>
                          <U+273A>
                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                               <U+2717>
                          <U+2739>
                          <U+2738>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                          <U+2737>
                                                                                       <U+271E>
                          <U+2736>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
                          <U+2735>
                          <U+2734>
                          <U+2733>
                      <U+272F>
                      <U+272E>
                      <U+272B>
                      <U+272D>

                                                  117/144
<removed-date>   <U+272F>
              <U+272E>
                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                      <U+2722>
                              <U+2718>
              <U+272D>
                              <U+271A>
                              <U+2717>
                              <U+271C>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+273C>
                              <U+2719>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                  <U+2714>
                              <U+271B>                                   <U+273A>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                              <U+271A>
                                                                  <U+2739>
                              <U+2719>
                              <U+2718>
                              <U+2717>
                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                  <U+2773>
                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                              <U+275E>
                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                  <U+276B>
                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                  <U+2772>
                                                              <U+275D>
                                                  <U+276A>
                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                  <U+276D>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                  <U+276C>
                                          <U+276F>
                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                  <U+2729>
                                          <U+276F>
                                      |
                  <U+2605>
                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                  <U+2769>
                                      |
                                          <U+275A>
                  <U+2727>
                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                      <U+25D7>
                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2768>
                  <U+2725>
                                                                              <U+270D>
                                          <U+2759>
                  <U+2724>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2773>
                                                  <U+2773>
                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                  <U+2741>
                                                  <U+2772>
                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                      P
                                                              <U+275B>
                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                      <U+2756>
                                  <U+2745>
                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                      <U+2756>
                                  <U+2744>
                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                              <U+270C>
                                  <U+2743>                                           <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                  <U+2742>
                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                  <U+2741>
                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                      <U+2751>
                                  <U+2740>
                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                          <U+2716>
                                              <U+2747>
                                  <U+273F>
                                              <U+2746>
                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                      <U+274F>
                                  <U+273E>
                                                                      
                              <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                              <U+2721>
                              <U+2737>
                                  <U+273D>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+25CF>
                              <U+2736>
                              <U+2735>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                              <U+2734>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                              <U+2733>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                              <U+2732>
                              <U+2731>
                              <U+2730>
                          <U+272C>
                          <U+272B>
                      <U+2605>
                          <U+272A>

                                                      118/144
<removed-date>   <U+272F>
              <U+272E>
                                                                                <U+2727>
                                                                                <U+2726>
                              <U+271C>
              <U+272D>
                                                                <U+271A>
                                                                <U+271A>
                              <U+2723>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                                <U+2718>
                              <U+271B>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                                      <U+273E>
                                                                <U+2715>
                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                  |
                              <U+2722>
<removed-apn>
                                                                            <U+2714>
                                      <U+273C>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                            <U+2714>
                                      <U+273D>
                              <U+2724>                   <U+25D7>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                <U+2717>
                              <U+2723>
                                                  P
                                      <U+273C>
                                                                <U+2719>
                              <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                      <U+273B>
                                                                <U+2718>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                      <U+273A>
                              <U+271C>
                                                                <U+2717>
                                                                <U+2716>
                                      <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2737>
                              <U+271B>
                                      <U+2738>
                                                                <U+2715>
                                      <U+2737>
                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                  <U+2729>
                  <U+2605>
                                                                        <U+270F>
                                              <U+2741>
                                              <U+2741>
                  <U+2727>
                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                  <U+2726>
                  <U+2725>
                                                        <U+2756>
                                                                        <U+270D>
                                              <U+2749>
                                                        <U+274B>
                  <U+2724>
                                  <U+2730>
                                                        <U+25C6>
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                        <U+25BC>
                                              <U+2747>
                                  <U+272F>
                                                        <U+274D>
                                              <U+272D>
                                              <U+2746>
                                          <U+2736>
                                  <U+272F>
                                                        <U+25B2>
                                          <U+2735>
                                              <U+2745>
                                          <U+2734>
                                  <U+272D>
                                                        <U+2751>
                                          <U+2733>
                                              <U+2744>
                                          <U+2732>
                                  <U+272E>
                                                        <U+274F>
                                              <U+2743>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                        
                                              <U+2743>
                                  <U+272D>
                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                        <U+274D>
                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                        <U+2734>
                                                        <U+2733>
                                              <U+2742>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                  <U+272C>
                                                        <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2741>
                                                        <U+274B>
                                                                        <U+261E>
                                              <U+2741>
                                              <U+2740>
                                                        <U+274A>
                                              <U+273F>
                                                                <U+271A>
                                                                <U+271A>
                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                <U+2715>
                              <U+276C>
                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                        <U+2721>
                              <U+2769>
                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                              <U+2768>
                                                                <U+272B>
                              <U+2773>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                <U+272A>
                              <U+2772>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                              <U+2771>
                                                                <U+2729>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                              <U+276F>
                                                                <U+2605>
                              <U+275A>
                              <U+2759>
                          <U+272C>
                          <U+272B>
                      <U+2605>
                          <U+272A>

                                                      119/144
<removed-date>   <U+272F>
              <U+272E>
                                                                                        <U+2722>
                                                                                        <U+271C>
                              <U+2717>
              <U+272D>
                                                                        <U+271A>
                                                                        <U+271A>
                              <U+2719>
                                      <U+2735>
                                                                        <U+2718>
                              <U+2716>
                              <U+271B>
                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                      <U+2735>
                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                  <U+274A>             <U+2773>
                              <U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                    <U+2715>
                                      <U+2733>
                                                  <U+272F>             <U+272F>
                                                                        <U+2718>
                                                                                    <U+2715>
                                      <U+2734>
                              <U+271A>                   <U+2749>             <U+2749>
                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                                        <U+2717>
                              <U+2719>
                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                <U+2731>
                                      <U+2733>
                                                                        <U+2719>
                              <U+2718>
                                                  <U+2730>             <U+2730>
                                      <U+2732>
                                                                        <U+2718>
                                                  <U+272F>             <U+272F>
                                      <U+2731>
                              <U+2717>
                                                                        <U+2717>
                                                                        <U+2716>
                                      <U+2730>
                                                  <U+272E>             <U+272E>
                              <U+2716>
                                      <U+272F>
                                                                        <U+2715>
                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                <U+2715>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                <U+2712>
                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                            <U+2706>
                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                            <U+260E>
                  <U+2729>
                                                            <U+2759>
                  <U+2605>
                                                                                <U+2711>
                                              <U+2738>
                                              <U+2738>
                  <U+2727>
                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                            |
                  <U+2726>
                  <U+2725>
                                                        <U+272D>
                                                                                <U+270E>
                                              <U+2740>
                                                        <U+272C>
                  <U+2724>
                                                            <U+2724>
                                  <U+2727>
                                                        <U+272B>
                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                              <U+273F>
                                                            <U+25D7>
                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                        <U+272A>
                                              <U+273E>
                                  <U+2726>
                                                            <U+2727>
                                                        <U+2729>
                                          <U+272D>
                                              <U+2724>
                                          <U+272C>
                                              <U+273D>
                                                                    <U+2772>
                                  <U+2726>
                                                        <U+2605>
                                          <U+272B>
                                                            <U+2726>
                                                                    <U+2771>
                                                                    <U+2744>
                                              <U+273C>
                                  <U+2724>
                                                        <U+2747>
                                          <U+272A>
                                                                    <U+2743>
                                                            <U+2726>
                                              <U+273B>
                                                                    <U+276F>
                                  <U+2725>
                                          <U+2729>
                                                        <U+2746>
                                                            <U+2724>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                                    <U+275A>
                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                        <U+2745>
                                          <U+2605>
                                              <U+273A>
                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                        <U+2729>   <U+2725>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                        <U+2744>
                                                        <U+2743>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                  <U+2723>
                                                        <U+2742>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                        <U+272C>
                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                            P
                                              <U+2738>
                                                            <U+2737>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                        <U+2741>
                                                            <U+273E>
                                              <U+2736>
                                                            <U+273B>
                                                            <U+2756>
                                                                        <U+271A>
                                                                        <U+271A>
                                                                        <U+2718>
                                                                        <U+2715>
                              <U+25C6>
                                                                        <U+2718>
                                                                                <U+261B>
                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                <U+271F>
                              <U+25B2>
                                                                        <U+272B>
                              <U+2751>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                        <U+272A>
                              <U+274F>
                                                                                <U+271F>
                              
                                                                        <U+2729>
                                                                                <U+271E>
                              <U+274D>
                                                                        <U+2605>
                              <U+25CF>
                              <U+274B>
                          <U+272C>
                          <U+272B>
                      <U+2605>
                          <U+272A>

                                                          120/144
<removed-date>   <U+2665>
              <U+2660>
                                                                                    <U+275C>
                                                                                    <U+275B>
                              <U+2773>
              <U+2767>
                                                                    <U+271A>
                              <U+2769>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                    <U+271B>
                              <U+2772>
                                          <U+2605>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                    <U+271A>
                              <U+276D>
                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                <U+270C>
                                          <U+2726>
                              <U+2768>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                                          <U+2725>
                              <U+276C>
                                                                    <U+2717>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2734>
                                                  <U+2733>
                              <U+2769>
                                                                    <U+2716>
                              <U+2768>
                                                  <U+2734>
                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                    <U+2715>
                              <U+2773>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+2732>
                              <U+2772>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                            <U+2713>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                            <U+2712>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+2711>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                    <U+271A>
                                                                    <U+271B>
                                                                    <U+2724>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                    <U+2724>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                    <U+2723>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                    <U+2722>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                      <U+2771>
                                                                    <U+271C>                   <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                      <U+276F>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+2764>
                                      <U+275A>
                  <U+2763>
                                                                            <U+270F>
                  <U+2762>
                                      <U+2759>
                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                        <U+2704>
                  <U+2761>
                  <U+275E>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                  <U+275D>
                                      |
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                P
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                <U+2756>
                                                                <U+2751>
                                                                <U+25C6>
                                              <U+273F>
                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                <U+25BC>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                                              <U+273E>
                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                            <U+273F>
                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                      <U+2741>
                                                            <U+273C>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                <U+25B2>
                                              <U+273D>
                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                      <U+2744>
                                                            <U+273E>
                                              <U+273C>
                                                            <U+2748>
                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                <U+25B2>
                                              <U+273B>
                                                            <U+2747>
                                                      <U+2742>
                                              <U+273A>                 <U+2751>
                                                            <U+2746>
                                                      <U+2741>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                <U+274F>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                
                              <U+2707>
                                                                <U+274D>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                              <U+2708>
                                  <U+2775>
                                                                <U+25CF>
                                  <U+2774>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                  <U+2774>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                <U+274B>
                              <U+2709>
                              t
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                  <U+276B>
                              s
                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                <U+274A>
                              r
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                  <U+276A>
                              q
                                                                <U+2749>
                              <U+2663>
                              <U+2666>
                          <U+2766>
                          <U+2765>
                      <U+2763>
                          <U+2710>

                                                                  121/144
<removed-date>   <U+2756>
              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                                      <U+2748>
                              <U+273F>
              <U+25BC>
                              <U+2741>
                                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                              <U+273E>
                                              <U+271A>
                                                          |
                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2771>
                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                              <U+2718>
                              <U+2740>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                              <U+2717>
                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                          <U+275A>
                                                          <U+2759>
                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                              <U+2740>
                                                          <U+275A>
                                                          <U+2759>
                              <U+273F>
                                                          |
                                                          <U+25D7>
                              <U+273E>
                                                          P
                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                          <U+2463>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+2665>
                                          <U+2462>
                                                                                          <U+276D>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+2461>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                          <U+2769>
                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                              t                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                          <U+2773>
                                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                      <U+273E>
                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                              s
                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                      <U+2732>
                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                              <U+2763>
                                      <U+2734>
                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                  
                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                              <U+2761>
                  <U+274D>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+273E>
                                      <U+2733>
                                                      <U+275C>
                  <U+274A>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                              r
                  <U+25CF>
                                                                  <U+2764>
                  <U+274B>
                                                                              q
                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                      <U+275B>
                  <U+274A>
                                      <U+2732>
                                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                      <U+2730>
                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                              <U+2775>
                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                                      <U+273B>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+273B>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                              <U+2707>
                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                              <U+273D>
                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                  <U+2747>
                              <U+273C>
                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                  <U+2745>
                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                              <U+2739>
                                  <U+2744>
                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                              <U+2737>
                              <U+2736>
                          <U+25B2>
                          <U+2751>
                      <U+274D>
                          <U+274F>

                                                              122/144
<removed-date>   <U+2707>
              <U+2708>
                                                                                                <U+2766>
                                                                                                <U+2765>
                              <U+275B>
              <U+2709>
                              <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2735>
                              <U+2775>
                                              <U+2726>
                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                <U+271A>
                              <U+2761>
                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                <U+2719>
                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                <U+2718>
                              <U+275C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                                                                <U+2717>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                <U+2717>
                              <U+275E>
                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                      <U+2731>
                              <U+275D>
                                                                                <U+2716>
                              <U+275C>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                      <U+2731>
                              <U+275B>
                                                      <U+2605>
                                                      <U+2730>
                              <U+2775>
                                                      <U+272F>
                                                      <U+272E>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                <U+2722>
                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                <U+2718>
                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                <U+271C>
                                                      <U+272A>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                <U+271B>
                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                      <U+2605>
                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2727>
                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                  q
                                          <U+276F>
                  <U+2663>
                                                                                        <U+2711>
                  <U+2666>
                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                  <U+2665>
                  <U+2660>
                                                                                        <U+270E>
                  <U+2767>
                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+25B2>
                                          |
                                                                            <U+25D7>
                                                                        <U+273C>
                                                                        <U+273B>
                                                                    <U+274F>
                                                                        <U+273A>
                                                                    <U+25CF>
                                                                    
                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                        <U+2739>
                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2743>                 P
                                                                    <U+274D>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                <U+273D>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                <U+273A>
                                                                            <U+2756>
                                                                    <U+25CF>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                <U+273C>
                                                                    <U+274B>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                    <U+274A>
                                                                            <U+25C6>
                                                                <U+2746>
                                                          <U+2741>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                    <U+2748>
                                                                <U+2745>
                                                                        <U+2746>
                                                          <U+2740>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                  <U+2462>
                                                                    <U+2749>
                                                                        <U+273C>
                                                                <U+2744>
                                                          <U+273F>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                  <U+2461>
                                  <U+2460>
                                                                        <U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2748>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                            <U+25BC>
                              <U+2774>
                                                                    <U+2747>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                      <U+2710>
                              <U+276B>
                                      <U+2764>
                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                      <U+2764>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+25B2>
                              <U+276A>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                      <U+2763>
                              <U+276D>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                        <U+2739>
                              <U+276C>
                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                      <U+2762>
                              <U+2769>
                                                                            <U+2751>
                              <U+2768>
                              <U+2773>
                          t
                          s
                      <U+2663>
                          r

                                              123/144
<removed-date>   <U+273C>
              <U+273B>
                                                                        <U+2730>
                                                                        <U+272F>
                              <U+272A>
              <U+273A>
                                                        <U+271B>
                                                        <U+271B>
                              <U+272C>
                                                        <U+2719>
                              <U+2729>
                              <U+272E>
                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                        <U+2716>
                                                                    <U+270D>
                                      <U+2772>
                              <U+272B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                    <U+2715>
                                      <U+2759>
                                                        <U+2719>
                                                                    <U+2715>
                              <U+272D>       <U+2771>
                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                        <U+2718>
                              <U+272C>
                                      <U+276F>
                                                        <U+271A>
                              <U+272B>
                                      <U+275A>
                                                        <U+2719>
                                      <U+2759>
                              <U+272A>
                                                        <U+2718>
                                                        <U+2717>
                                      |
                              <U+2729>
                                                        <U+2716>
                                                                <U+2715>
                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                <U+2713>
                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                <U+2712>
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+2706>
                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+260E>
                  <U+2736>
                  <U+2735>
                                                                <U+2711>
                  <U+2734>
                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                            <U+2704>
                  <U+2733>
                  <U+2732>
                                                                <U+270E>
                  <U+2731>
                                          <U+25D7>
                                  <U+2749>
                                          P
                                  <U+2746>
                                                                            <U+2702>
                                          
                                  <U+2748>
                                          <U+274D>
                                                                            <U+2701>
                                          <U+2756>
                                  <U+2747>
                                          <U+25C6>
                                  <U+2746>
                                          <U+25BC>
                                  <U+2745>
                                  <U+2744>
                                          <U+25B2>
                                  <U+2742>
                                          <U+2751>
                                                            <U+261E>
                                  <U+2743>
                                          <U+274F>
                                          
                                                                <U+261B>
                                          <U+274D>
                                                                <U+270D>
                                  <U+2742>
                                                                <U+270D>
                                          <U+25CF>
                                          <U+274B>
                                                                <U+2720>
                                  <U+2741>
                                          <U+274A>
                                                                <U+270C>
                                                        <U+271B>
                                                        <U+271B>
                                                        <U+2719>
                                                        <U+2716>
                              <U+2605>
                                                        <U+2719>
                                                                <U+261B>
                              <U+2727>
                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                <U+271F>
                                                        <U+2740>
                              <U+2726>
                                                                <U+2720>
                                                        <U+273F>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                <U+271F>
                                                        <U+273E>
                              <U+2724>
                                                                <U+271E>
                                                        <U+273D>
                              <U+2723>
                              <U+2722>
                              <U+271C>
                          <U+2739>
                          <U+2738>
                      <U+2735>
                          <U+2737>

                                          124/144
<removed-date>   <U+273C>
              <U+273B>
                                                            <U+271F>
                                                            <U+271E>
              <U+273A>
<removed-apn>
                                                        <U+270E>
                                                        <U+270E>
                                                        <U+270D>
                                                        <U+270C>
                                                        <U+261E>
                                                        <U+261B>
                                                        <U+2721>
                                                        <U+2720>
                                                    <U+2733>
                                                    <U+2733>
                                                    <U+272F>
                              <U+2714>
                              <U+2714>
                                                    <U+272C>
                                                                <U+271D>
                              <U+2717>
                              <U+2715>
                                                                <U+2706>
                                                    <U+2732>
                                                    <U+272E>
                                                                <U+260E>
                  <U+2736>
                              <U+2717>
                  <U+2735>
                                                    <U+2731>
                              <U+2716>
                  <U+2734>
                                                                <U+2704>
                  <U+2733>
                  <U+2732>
                                                    <U+272F>
                              <U+2715>
                  <U+2731>
                              <U+2713>
                                                    <U+272E>           <U+2702>
                              <U+2714>
                                                    <U+2730>
                                                                <U+2701>
                              <U+2713>
                                                    <U+272F>
                                                    <U+272E>
                              <U+2712>
                                                    <U+272D>
                                                    <U+272C>
                                  <U+271C>
                                  <U+2726>
                                  <U+2725>
                                  <U+2719>
                                                        <U+270E>
                                  <U+2722>
                                                        <U+2711>
                                  <U+2724>
                                                        <U+270F>
                                  <U+2723>
                                                        <U+261E>
                                      <U+272A>
                                  <U+2718>
                                                        <U+270D>
                                      <U+2605>
                                  <U+2719>
                                      <U+272B>
                                                        <U+270C>
                                  <U+2722>
                                      <U+272A>
                                  <U+271C>
                                      <U+2729>
                                  <U+271B>
                                  <U+271A>
                                  <U+2719>   <U+2605>
                                  <U+2718>   <U+2727>
                          <U+2739>
                          <U+2738>
                      <U+2735>
                          <U+2737>

                                          125/144
<removed-date>   <U+273C>
              <U+273B>
                                                            <U+271F>
                                                            <U+271E>
              <U+273A>
<removed-apn>
                                                        <U+270E>
                                                        <U+270E>
                                                        <U+270D>
                                                        <U+270C>
                                                        <U+261E>
                                                        <U+261B>
                                                        <U+2721>
                                                        <U+2720>
                                                    <U+2733>
                                                    <U+2733>
                                                    <U+272F>
                              <U+2714>
                              <U+2714>
                                                    <U+272C>
                                                                <U+271D>
                              <U+2717>
                              <U+2715>
                                                                <U+2706>
                                                    <U+2732>
                                                    <U+272E>
                                                                <U+260E>
                  <U+2736>
                              <U+2717>
                  <U+2735>
                                                    <U+2731>
                              <U+2716>
                  <U+2734>
                                                                <U+2704>
                  <U+2733>
                  <U+2732>
                                                    <U+272F>
                              <U+2715>
                  <U+2731>
                              <U+2713>
                                                    <U+272E>           <U+2702>
                              <U+2714>
                                                    <U+2730>
                                                                <U+2701>
                              <U+2713>
                                                    <U+272F>
                                                    <U+272E>
                              <U+2712>
                                                    <U+272D>
                                                    <U+272C>
                                  <U+271C>
                                  <U+2726>
                                  <U+2725>
                                  <U+2719>
                                                        <U+270E>
                                  <U+2722>
                                                        <U+2711>
                                  <U+2724>
                                                        <U+270F>
                                  <U+2723>
                                                        <U+261E>
                                      <U+272A>
                                  <U+2718>
                                                        <U+270D>
                                      <U+2605>
                                  <U+2719>
                                      <U+272B>
                                                        <U+270C>
                                  <U+2722>
                                      <U+272A>
                                  <U+271C>
                                      <U+2729>
                                  <U+271B>
                                  <U+271A>
                                  <U+2719>   <U+2605>
                                  <U+2718>   <U+2727>
                          <U+2739>
                          <U+2738>
                      <U+2735>
                          <U+2737>

                                                      126/144
<removed-date>   <U+273C>
              <U+273B>
                                                                                <U+272A>
                                                                                <U+2729>
                              <U+2724>
              <U+273A>
                                                                <U+271B>
                                                                <U+271B>
                              <U+2726>
                                                                <U+2719>
                              <U+2723>
                              <U+2605>
                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                <U+2716>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                  <U+274F>
                                      <U+2746>
                              <U+2725>
<removed-apn>
                                                                            <U+2715>
                                      <U+2742>           <U+2742>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                                                            <U+2715>
                              <U+2727>       <U+2745>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                <U+2718>
                              <U+2726>
                                      <U+2744>           <U+274F>
                                                                <U+271A>
                              <U+2725>
                                      <U+2743>           <U+2743>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                      <U+2742>           <U+2742>
                              <U+2724>
                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                <U+2717>
                                      <U+2741>           <U+2741>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                <U+2716>
                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                  <U+2736>
                                              <U+2733>
                  <U+2735>
                                                                        <U+2711>
                  <U+2734>
                                                                        <U+270F>
                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                  <U+2733>
                                          <U+2740>
                  <U+2732>
                                                                        <U+270E>
                                          <U+2735>
                  <U+2731>
                                              <U+2749>
                                  <U+2733>
                                          <U+273F>
                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                  <U+2732>
                                          <U+273E>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                  <U+2731>
                                              <U+272C>
                                          <U+2739>
                                  <U+2730>
                                              <U+2748>
                                                      
                                          <U+273D>
                                  <U+272F>
                                                      <U+274D>
                                          <U+273C>   <U+272F>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                  <U+272E>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                      <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2747>
                                  <U+272C>
                                          <U+273B>
                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                    <U+261E>
                                          <U+273A>
                                  <U+272D>           <U+272E>
                                                                        <U+261B>
                                          <U+2739>
                                                                        <U+270D>
                                              <U+272C>
                                  <U+272C>
                                          <U+2738>
                                                                        <U+270D>
                                          <U+2737>
                                              <U+2733>
                                                                        <U+2720>
                                          <U+2736>
                                  <U+272B>
                                          <U+2735>
                                              <U+272D>
                                                                        <U+270C>
                                              <U+2732>
                                          <U+2734>
                                              <U+272E>
                                              <U+2747>
                                                                <U+271B>
                                                                <U+271B>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                                                <U+2716>
                              <U+2722>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                                                        <U+261B>
                              <U+271C>
                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                <U+2740>
                              <U+271B>
                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                <U+273F>
                              <U+271A>
                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                <U+273E>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                <U+273D>
                              <U+2718>
                              <U+2717>
                              <U+2716>
                          <U+2739>
                          <U+2738>
                      <U+2735>
                          <U+2737>

                                                  127/144
<removed-date>   <U+2714>
              <U+2713>
                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>
              <U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                              <U+2709>
                                                              t
                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                              <U+2767>
                                                          <U+275B>
                                                          <U+2763>
                                              <U+276B>
                                          <U+2739>
                                                          <U+275B>
                                          <U+272E>
                                              <U+2766>
                                          <U+272E>
                                                          <U+2762>
                                                          <U+275D>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                          <U+2736>
                                                      r
                                              <U+275C>
                                          <U+2730>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                              <U+275B>
                                                          <U+2775>
                                              <U+2763>
                                                          <U+276B>
                              <U+2724>
                                          <U+2733>
                                              <U+2765>
                                                      <U+2663>
                              <U+272B>
                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+2737>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                          <U+2767>
                                                          <U+275E>
                              <U+272A>
                                          <U+2735>
                                                                  s
                                              <U+2710>
                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                      <U+2763>
                              <U+2729>
                                          <U+2730>
                                                      q
                                              <U+2763>
                              <U+2729>
                                              <U+2763>
                                                                      <U+275B>
                                              <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2663>
                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                  <U+270D>
                              <U+2605>
                                                                      <U+275C>
                  <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2762>
                                              <U+2764>
                                          <U+2735>
                                                          <U+275D>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                              <U+2763>
                  <U+261B>           <U+2727>
                  <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2764>
                                              <U+2763>
                                          <U+2734>
                                                          <U+275B>
                  <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+2762>
                                              <U+275B>
                                                          <U+2762>
                                          <U+2733>
                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2775>
                                              <U+275C>                       <U+2767>
                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                          <U+275C>
                              <U+2725>
                                          <U+2732>
                                              <U+2762>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                          <U+2731>
                                                          <U+2774>
                                              <U+2761>
                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                      <U+273E>
                              <U+2724>
                                                          <U+276B>
                                          <U+2730>
                                              <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                      <U+273D>
                              <U+2723>
                                          <U+272F>
                                                      <U+2665>
                                              <U+275B>
                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                          <U+272E>
                                              <U+2775>
                                                                                      <U+273B>
                                          <U+272D>
                                                          <U+2766>
                                              <U+2774>
                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                          <U+272C>
                                              <U+276B>
                                                          <U+276B>
                                                      <U+2660>
                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                              <U+276D>
                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                      
                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                              <U+2768>
                                      <U+2749>           <U+2751>
                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                  <U+2747>
                                      <U+274D>
                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                              
                                      <U+25CF>
                                                  <U+25BC>
                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                  <U+274D>
                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                              <U+2773>
                                                                              <U+276F>
                                      <U+2749>
                                                  <U+2743>
                                  <U+2746>
                                                                          |       <U+25CF>       <U+276F>
                                      <U+274A>
                                                  <U+2747>
                                  <U+2745>
                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                              <U+275A>               <U+274B>
                                      <U+2749>                                   <U+25D7>
                                                  <U+25B2>
                                  <U+2743>
                                                  <U+2746>
                                  <U+2744>
                                      <U+2748>                                   P   <U+2759>               <U+2771>
                                                  <U+2751>
                                  <U+2743>
                                  <U+2742>               <U+274F>
                          <U+2711>
                          <U+270F>
                      <U+270C>
                          <U+270E>

                                              128/144
<removed-date>   <U+2714>
              <U+2713>
                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                    <U+271E>
              <U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                <U+2717>
                                                                <U+2716>
                                                                <U+2715>
                              <U+2725>
                              <U+2724>
                              <U+272B>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                              <U+272A>
                                                                        <U+2706>
                              <U+2729>
                              <U+2729>
                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+270D>
                              <U+2605>
                  <U+270C>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                        <U+2704>
                  <U+261B>           <U+2727>
                  <U+2721>
                  <U+2720>
                              <U+2726>
                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                        <U+2701>
                              <U+2725>
                              <U+2725>
                              <U+2724>
                              <U+2723>
                                                            <U+2749>
                                                            <U+2748>
                                                                <U+2722>
                                                            <U+2740>
                                                                <U+2716>
                                                            <U+2747>
                                          <U+2737>
                                                                <U+271C>
                                                            <U+2746>
                                          <U+2733>
                                                                <U+271B>
                                                            <U+2740>
                                      <U+2731>
                                          <U+2736>
                                                        <U+2740>
                                                                <U+271A>
                                                            <U+2745>
                                          <U+2735>
                                  <U+272D>
                                                        <U+273F>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                  <U+2731>
                                                            <U+2744>
                                                        <U+273E>
                                      <U+272D>
                                  <U+2730>
                                                <U+273A>       <U+273D>   <U+273E>
                                      <U+2731>
                                  <U+272F>
                                                            <U+2743>
                                                        <U+273C>   <U+2742>
                                                <U+2739>
                                          <U+2734>
                                  <U+272D>
                                      <U+2730>
                                  <U+272E>
                                                <U+2738>       <U+273B>   <U+2741>
                                          <U+2733>
                                  <U+272D>
                                  <U+272C>       <U+2732>
                          <U+2711>
                          <U+270F>
                      <U+270C>
                          <U+270E>

                                                          129/144
<removed-date>   <U+2736>
              <U+2735>
                                                                                            <U+272A>
                                                                                            <U+2729>
                              <U+2724>
              <U+2734>
                                                                            <U+271B>
                                                                            <U+271B>
                              <U+2726>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                              <U+2723>
                                      <U+2772>
                              <U+2605>
                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                    |
                                                      <U+25BC>
                                      
                              <U+2725>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                   
                                                                            <U+2719>
                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                        <U+2715>
                              <U+2727>                       <U+25B2>
                                                                    <U+25BC>
                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                      |
                                                                            <U+2718>
                              <U+2726>
                                                      <U+2751>             |
                                                                            <U+271A>
                                      <U+2771>
                              <U+2725>
                                                      <U+274F>             <U+274F>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                                      <U+274F>
                                                                   
                              <U+2724>
                                                                            <U+2718>
                                      
                                                                            <U+2717>
                                                      <U+274D>             <U+274D>
                              <U+2723>
                                      <U+274D>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                                                                                    <U+2715>
                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+2712>
                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                <U+260E>
                  <U+2730>
                                                               <U+273F>
                  <U+272F>
                                                                                    <U+2711>
                  <U+272E>
                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                <U+2704>
                  <U+272D>
                                                          <U+25CF>
                  <U+272C>
                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2741>
                  <U+272B>
                                                               P
                                                  <U+273F>
                                                          <U+274B>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                  <U+273E>
                                                          <U+274A>
                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                  <U+273D>
                                  <U+2738>                            <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                        <U+25CF>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                        <U+2741>
                                  <U+276F>           <U+276C>
                                                               <U+2756>
                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                        <U+274B>
                                              <U+2769>
                                                  <U+273B>
                                          <U+2744>
                                  <U+2739>                       <U+2748>    <U+273B>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                          <U+2743>
                                                                        <U+274A>
                                  <U+273B>
                                              <U+2768>
                                                               <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                        <U+2745>
                                              <U+2773>
                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2746>
                                                  <U+2739>            <U+273A>
                                                                        <U+2749>
                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                  <U+2759>                            <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2743>
                                                               <U+273F>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2742>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2741>
                                                               <U+2739>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                               <U+273E>
                                                          <U+2740>
                                                               <U+273A>
                                                               <U+25C6>
                                                                            <U+271B>
                                                                            <U+271B>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                                                                            <U+2716>
                              <U+2722>
                                                                            <U+2719>
                                                                                    <U+261B>
                              <U+271C>
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+2740>
                              <U+271B>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                            <U+273F>
                              <U+271A>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+273E>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                            <U+273D>
                              <U+2718>
                              <U+2717>
                              <U+2716>
                          <U+2733>
                          <U+2732>
                      <U+272F>
                          <U+2731>

                                                          130/144
<removed-date>   <U+2666>
              <U+2665>
                                                                                    <U+275E>
                                                                                    <U+275D>
                              <U+2769>
              <U+2660>
                                                                    <U+271A>
                              <U+276D>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                    <U+271B>
                              <U+2768>
                                          <U+2605>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                    <U+271A>
                              <U+276B>
                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                <U+270C>
                                          <U+2726>
                              <U+276C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                <U+2714>
                                          <U+2725>
                              <U+276A>
                                                                    <U+2717>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2734>
                                                  <U+2733>
                              <U+276D>
                                                                    <U+2716>
                              <U+276C>
                                                  <U+2734>
                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                    <U+2715>
                              <U+2769>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                  <U+2732>
                              <U+2768>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                            <U+2713>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                            <U+2712>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+2711>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                    <U+271A>
                                                                    <U+271B>
                                                                    <U+2724>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                    <U+2724>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                    <U+2723>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                    <U+2722>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                      P
                                                                    <U+271C>                   <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                      <U+2756>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+2710>
                                      <U+25C6>
                  <U+2764>
                                                                            <U+270F>
                  <U+2763>
                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                        <U+2704>
                  <U+2763>
                  <U+2762>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                  <U+2761>
                                      <U+25B2>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                      <U+2751>
                                                      <U+2746>
                                              <U+273F>
                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                <U+274F>
                                                      <U+2741>
                                              <U+273E>
                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                            <U+273F>
                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                            <U+273C>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                
                                              <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2745>
                                              <U+273D>
                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                            <U+273E>
                                              <U+273C>
                                                                <U+274D>
                                                      <U+2744>
                                                            <U+2749>
                                              <U+273B>
                                                                <U+25CF>
                                                      <U+2743>
                                                            <U+2748>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                                <U+274B>
                                                      <U+2742>
                                                            <U+2747>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                <U+274A>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2740>
                              <U+2773>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                                  <U+275C>
                              <U+2772>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                              <U+2771>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                  <U+2775>
                              <U+276F>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                              <U+275A>
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                  <U+2774>
                              <U+2759>
                              |
                              <U+25D7>
                          <U+2767>
                          <U+2766>
                      <U+2764>
                          <U+2765>

                                                          131/144
<removed-date>   <U+2660>
              <U+2767>
                                                                                    <U+275B>
                                                                                    <U+2775>
                              <U+2772>
              <U+2766>
                              <U+2768>
                                                  <U+2732>
                              <U+2771>
                                          <U+2723>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                    <U+271A>
                              <U+276C>
                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2731>
                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                    <U+2719>
                                          <U+271C>
                                                                    <U+2718>
                              <U+2773>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                <U+2715>
                                                                    <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                <U+2715>
                                          <U+271B>
                                                                    <U+2717>
                              <U+2769>
                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                  <U+272E>
                              <U+2768>
                                                                    <U+2716>
                              <U+2773>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                  <U+272E>
                              <U+2772>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                  <U+272D>
                              <U+2771>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                            <U+2715>
                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                            <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                            <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                  <U+2729>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                      <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                      <U+2751>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+2763>
                  <U+2762>
                                                                            <U+2711>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                            <U+270F>
                                      <U+274F>                                                 <U+2704>
                  <U+275E>
                  <U+275D>
                                                                            <U+270E>
                  <U+275C>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                      
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                <U+2747>
                                      <U+274D>
                                                                <U+25CF>
                                                                <U+274B>
                                                                <U+2744>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                            <U+261B>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                      <U+273C>
                                                            <U+2737>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                              <U+2734>
                                                                <U+274A>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                      <U+273F>
                                                            <U+2739>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                <U+2749>
                                                            <U+2742>
                                                      <U+273E>
                                              <U+2736>
                                                                <U+2743>
                                                            <U+2741>
                                                      <U+273D>
                                              <U+2735>
                                                                <U+2744>
                                                            <U+2740>
                                                      <U+273C>
                                              <U+2734>
                                                                <U+2748>
                                              <U+2733>
                                                      <U+273B>
                                                                <U+2747>
                              <U+276F>
                                                                <U+2746>
                                                                            <U+261B>
                                  <U+2774>
                                                                <U+2745>
                              <U+275A>
                                  <U+276B>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                                  <U+276B>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                <U+2744>
                              <U+2759>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                  <U+276A>
                              |
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                <U+2743>
                              <U+25D7>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                                  <U+276D>
                              P
                              <U+2756>
                              <U+25C6>
                          <U+2765>
                          <U+2710>
                      <U+2762>
                          <U+2764>

                                                          132/144
<removed-date>   <U+2660>
              <U+2767>
                                                                                    <U+2772>
                                                                                    <U+2771>
                              <U+25BC>
              <U+2766>
                                                                    <U+276A>
                              <U+2756>
                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                    <U+276B>
                              <U+25B2>
                                          <U+2714>
                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                    <U+276A>
                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+276D>
                                                  <U+2727>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                          <U+2712>
                              <U+25C6>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                    <U+276C>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                <U+270F>
                                          <U+2711>
                              P
                                                                    <U+2769>
                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                  <U+2724>
                              <U+2756>
                                                                    <U+2768>
                              <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                    <U+2773>
                              <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+2716>
                                                  <U+2723>
                              <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2722>
                                                  <U+271C>
                                                  <U+2718>
                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                            <U+270F>
                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                    <U+276A>
                                                                    <U+276B>
                                                                    <U+275C>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                    <U+276D>
                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                    <U+275C>
                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                    <U+275B>
                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                    <U+2775>
                                                  <U+2716>
                                      <U+2748>
                                                                    <U+2774>                   <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2715>
                                      <U+2747>
                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+2763>
                                      <U+2746>
                  <U+2762>
                                                                            <U+261E>
                  <U+2761>
                                      <U+2745>
                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                                        <U+2704>
                  <U+275E>
                  <U+275D>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                  <U+275C>
                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                      <U+2743>
                                                                <U+273D>
                                                                <U+2742>
                                                                <U+2741>
                                                                <U+273A>
                                              <U+2730>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                              <U+272F>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                <U+273E>
                                                            <U+2730>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                            <U+272D>
                                                                            <U+260E>
                                              <U+272A>
                                                                <U+2740>
                                              <U+272E>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                                            <U+272F>
                                              <U+272D>
                                                                <U+273F>
                                                            <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2734>
                                              <U+272C>
                                                                <U+2739>
                                                            <U+2737>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                              <U+272B>
                                                                <U+273A>
                                                            <U+2736>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                              <U+272A>
                                                                <U+273E>
                                              <U+2729>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                <U+273D>
                              <U+2751>
                                                                <U+273C>
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                  <U+276F>
                                                                <U+273B>
                              <U+274F>
                                  <U+275A>
                                                                            <U+2706>
                                  <U+275A>
                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                <U+273A>
                              
                                                                            <U+260E>
                                  <U+2759>
                              <U+274D>
                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                <U+2739>
                              <U+25CF>
                                                                            <U+2702>
                                  |
                              <U+274B>
                              <U+274A>
                              <U+2749>
                          <U+2765>
                          <U+2710>
                      <U+2762>
                          <U+2764>

                                                                      133/144
<removed-date>   <U+273D>
              <U+273C>
                                                                                            <U+2731>
                                                                                            <U+2730>
                                  <U+2727>
              <U+273B>
                                  <U+2729>
                                                          <U+2713>
                                  <U+2726>
                                                                            <U+2747>
                                                  <U+2721>       <U+270D>
                                                                                        <U+276B>
                                  <U+272B>
                                                          <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                        <U+276C>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                  <U+2605>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                        <U+276A>
                                                                                <U+2751>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                        <U+276D>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                        <U+2769>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                        <U+276C>
                                  <U+2729>
                                  <U+2605>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                            <U+2746>
                                          <U+2707>
                                          <U+2708>
                                  <U+2727>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                          <U+2709>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                <U+274F>
                                                                                    |
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                            <U+2745>
                                                                                
                                                                                    <U+25D7>
                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                            <U+2744>
                                                                  <U+275E>
                          <U+2764>
                                                                  <U+2765>
                          <U+2763>
                                                                                    P
                                                                                <U+274D>
                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                <U+271D>
                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                          <U+275E>
                                                                            <U+2743>
                                                                                        <U+2769>
                          <U+2762>
                  <U+2737>                                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                        <U+2768>
                  <U+2736>
                          <U+2761>
                                                                                        <U+2773>
                  <U+2735>
                                              t
                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                    <U+2756>
                                                                                <U+25CF>
                  <U+2734>
                                              q
                  <U+2733>
                                                                                        <U+2772>
                  <U+2732>
                          <U+275E>
                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                        <U+2771>
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                              r
                          <U+275D>
                          <U+275C>                                                 <U+2742>
                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                              s
                          <U+275B>                   r
                          <U+2775>
                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                <U+274B>
                                                                                    <U+25C6>
                                              q
                              <U+2720>
                                              <U+2663>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                          <U+2774>
                                              <U+2666>
                                                                            <U+2741>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                              <U+2660>
                                              <U+2665>
                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                    <U+25BC>
                                                                                <U+274A>
                                              <U+2660>
                                              <U+2767>
                                                                            <U+2740>
                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                    <U+25B2>
                                                                        <U+2718>
                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                <U+2749>
                                                      <U+2714>
                                                              <U+2716>
                                  <U+2725>
                                                                            <U+273F>
                                      <U+272F>
                                  <U+2724>
                                      <U+272E>
                                      <U+272E>
                                  <U+2723>                                             <U+2748>
                                      <U+272D>
                                  <U+2722>
                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                        <U+276F>
                                      <U+272C>
                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                        <U+275A>
                                  <U+271A>
                                                                            <U+273E>
                                                                                        <U+2759>
                                  <U+2719>
                      <U+273A>
                      <U+2739>
                      <U+2736>
                      <U+2738>

                                     134/144
<removed-date>
                                                                      330
                               334
<removed-apn>
                    iPod              3:15 pm   4.6.44
                    Super U.                             15/11/2016
              332
                               Welcome Emily
                              Your smile
                           makes our guests
                             feel special
                                 You are in
                                  zone 3
                                FIG. 135

                                      135/144
<removed-date>             336                        338
<removed-apn>
                  Select Zone                     notes
              1     2         3   4
                                                 Repairs
                                                  Safety
                               on
                              break
                                                  Ideas
                             shift
                          finished
                                                  Acres
                  FIG. 136                      FIG. 137

                                       136/144
<removed-date>
                                                                            330
<removed-apn>
                    iPod                 3:15 pm   4.6.44
                    Super U.                                  15/11/2016
                     Greet (7) #231                                Elated
              340    Nicole
                     Kidman
                     Platinum Elite
                     Long Black                                    Angry
                     02/11/16          Shy                  Bold
                           Birthday            +2 days
                               You last spoke: 14/10/2016                         342
                                 Avid Lion's Supporter                            344
                                    Dog name Buffy                                346
                      Brenda Long (9)          31/10/16                           348
                                        YES                        28
                                  FIG. 138

                                       137/144
<removed-date>
                                                                         330
<removed-apn>
                    iPod                 3:15 pm   4.6.44
                    Super U.                                15/11/2016
                     Greet (7) #231
              350    Nicole
                     Kidman
                     Platinum Elite
                     Long Black
                     02/11/16
                           Birthday            +2 days
                               You last spoke: 14/10/2016
                                 Avid Lion's Supporter
                                    Dog name Buffy
                      Brenda Long (9)          31/10/16
                                       Arrive                73
                                  FIG. 139

                                               138/144
<removed-date>
                                                                                                    330
<removed-apn>
              Good luck Doug!
                                           voucher vo
                                              NT      uch
                                   DIS
                                       CO
                                         %
                                          U
                                                    50 25er
               vou
                  che
                                       11   RIBU  RIB
                                                     U
                                                                                DIS
                                                                                    U
                            0
                                                                          20%
                                                                                 CO
                     r
                          25% 10
                               RIB                                                    NT
                                  U
               DISCOUNT                                             RIBU RI           voucher vo
                 ou
                v UT
                      r
                   che A                                                    75 50cher
                                                                           BU
                                                                                                u
                  5J
                                   15% 12.5%OUNT              10%  CO
                                                                      U   DIS
                                        C   DIS               NT
                                                   DISCOUNT
                                   FIG. 140

                                 139/144
<removed-date>
                                                                   330
<removed-apn>
              iPod                 3:15 pm   4.6.44
              Super U.                                15/11/2016
               Greet (7) #231
               Nicole
               Kidman
               Platinum Elite
               Long Black
               02/11/16
                     Birthday            +2 days
                         You last spoke: 14/10/2016
                           Avid Lion's Supporter
                              Dog name Buffy
                Brenda Long (9)          31/10/16
                                 Finish               155
                            FIG. 141

                                      140/144
<removed-date>
                                                                           330
<removed-apn>
                    iPod                3:15 pm   4.6.44
                    Super U.                                 15/11/2016
                     Greet (7) #231                               Elated
              352    Nicole                                                  356
                     Kidman
                     Platinum Elite
                     Long Black                                   Angry
                     02/11/16         Shy                  Bold
                                      354
                           Birthday           +2 days
                                                                                 342
                                                                                 344
                                                                                 346
                      Brenda Long (9)                                            348
                                      Rate
                                FIG. 142

                            141/144
<removed-date>
                                                                330
<removed-apn>
              iPod              3:15 pm   4.6.44
              Super U.                             15/11/2016
                Congratulations
                    Emily!
                     3.6s Accept, 22s Arrive
                             3 defer
                Brenda Long           2.8, 24, 2
                Jeremy Sykes          3.6, 22, 1
                Thomas Duncan         2.2, 31, 0
                         FIG. 143

                                                  142/144
<removed-date>
                                                                 358
              360               Start
<removed-apn>
              362               Wait
                    364
                            First Card-in     No
                             for Player?
                                   Yes
                           Offer Greet to
              366
                           First Employee
                                                                         FIG. 144A
              368         Start Countdown
                                                                   374
                    370
                                             No       Offer Greet to
                             Accepted?
                                                    Another Employee
                                   Yes
                          Stop Countdown,
              372         Start count Up &
                          Log Accept Time
                                                  To FIG. 144B

                                               143/144
<removed-date>         358
                                                 From FIG. 144A
<removed-apn>
                     Receive Arrive Input
              376
                      & Log Arrive Time
                     Receive Finish Input
              378
                      & Log Finish Time
              380          Stop Count Up
                          Receive Ratings
              382
                             & Notes
              384         Display Statistics
                      Advance Number
              386
                      of Greets by One
                                      FIG. 144B

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                            144/144
           388
FIG. 145

