     H:\jdwtovinw\RA onb\DCC
                          ZMI 60112A61 xdx-5/l1 /2017
    ABSTRACT
    An embodiment relates to a system for brushing the teeth of a
    person,              comprising:                  a   vibratory      transducer      coupled       to      a
  5 brushing member;                          and a controller operatively coupled to the
    vibratory              transducer,                   wherein     subject   to  an    input      from     an
    operator,               the          controller          is     configured    to   cause       a   first
    reciprocating brushing motion of the brushing panel against a
    surface of a tooth at a first frequency, followed by a second
 10 reciprocating brushing motion of the brushing panel against the
    surface of the tooth at a second frequency different from the
    first            frequency,                  to   clean     the    tooth.     Another      embodiment
    relates             to      a      system           for  brushing      the  teeth     of    a    person,
    comprising:
15  a.             a  flexible             teeth tray configured              to at   least partially
    encapsulate one or more of the teeth in a flexible substrate
    material,             the flexible                   teeth    tray comprising      a   plurality         of
    shockwave electrode pairs configured to controllably transmit
    shockwaves to the one or more teeth to disrupt material which
20  may be coupled to the one or more teeth;                                     and
    b.             a  controller                   operatively       coupled   to  the    plurality          of
    shockwave electrode pairs; wherein subject to an input from an
    operator, the controller is configured to cause plurality of
    shockwaves to be directed against one or more surfaces of the
25  one or more encapsulated teeth, to clean the one or more teeth.

     Iaj ni' oowvNRorthl\DCC'J2l6it1)2361IC0 t15/l11/217
                                    SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TEETH CLEANING
                                                          RELATED APPLICATION
                This application claims divisional status from Australian
  5 Patent Application No. <removed-apn> the specification of which is
    incorporated by reference.
                                                        FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                The present invention relates generally to dental systems
 10 and        processes,                    and         specifically     to  teeth   cleaning     consumer
    products.
                                                                BACKGROUND
               The process of cleaning one's teeth with a conventional
 15 toothbrush can be time consuming and inadequate, depending upon
    the quality of the brushing device and the operator thereof.
    Several            technologies                       have   been developed     to assist     with the
    process of tooth brushing or tooth cleaning, including water
    jet type devices, electromechanical tooth brushing systems of
20  various sorts, and professional teeth cleaning tools, such as
    those which involve high frequency vibration of a pick type end
    effector to assist a dentist or hygienist with a process known
    conventionally                              in         America      as     a   "teeth       cleaning".
    Notwithstanding                            the        currently-available       technologies,      most
25  consumers brush their teeth manually for one or more times per
    day for several minutes with a conventional toothbrush. There
    is a need for more efficient and effective tooth brushing or
    tooth cleaning technologies that are accessible to consumers.
30                                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
               In     one embodiment,                         the   invention provides      a   system for
    brushing              the            teeth            of  a   person,    comprising:      a  vibratory

     HfjrcCi 1l uNRPonIlDCCZClI 6002361 Icx-15/11201
                                                                 -2
     transducer                 coupled to               a brushing      member;    and   a controller
    operatively                     coupled           to    the    vibratory    transducer,      wherein
     subject              to      an        input      from     an   operator,    the   controller     is
    configured to cause a first reciprocating brushing motion of
  5 the brushing panel against a surface of a tooth at a first
    frequency, followed by a second reciprocating brushing motion
    of the brushing panel against the surface of the tooth at a
    second frequency different from the first frequency, to clean
    the tooth.
 10
                 In another embodiment, the invention provides a system for
    brushing the teeth of a person, comprising:
                 a          a       flexible            teeth     tray   configured      to   at   least
    partially encapsulate one or more of the teeth in a flexible
 15 substrate                material,               the     flexible    teeth    tray   comprising     a
    plurality                  of           shockwave          electrode     pairs     configured     to
    controllably transmit shockwaves to the one or more teeth to
    disrupt material which may be coupled to the one or more teeth;
    and
20               b.         a controller operatively coupled to the plurality of
    shockwave electrode pairs;
                 wherein              subject          to    an    input   from    an  operator,     the
    controller is configured to cause plurality of shockwaves to be
    directed               against              one    or more      surfaces   of   the   one   or more
25  encapsulated teeth, to clean the one or more teeth.
                                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                The invention is described, by way of non-limiting example
    only, with reference to the drawings in which:
30              Figure            1A        depicts       a    conventional     bite-guard     type   of
    flexible tray.
                Figure            1B depicts             the    human  teeth   that    generally    need

                                I 6002361C_
     I:\j,,cn a mi\,,NRPonIDCOCZC        I cx-I5/Il/241 7
                                                                   -3
     cleaning on a daily basis.
                  Figure             2A      illustrates          one embodiment     of   a   system   for
     automating aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                  Figure 2B illustrates a close-up cross sectional view of
  5 one embodiment of a system for automating aspects of the tooth
    brushing process.
                  Figures              2C and              2D depict  close-up    side   views     of  one
    embodiment                   of a system for automating                    aspects     of the    tooth
    brushing process.
 10              Figure             3      illustrates           a process   for cleaning       teeth   in
    accordance                   with          one embodiment         of  a   system    for automating
    aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                 Figures                    4A-4C             illustrate     various         programming
    configurations                          for           embodiments of   the   subject     system    for
15  automating aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                 Figures                    5A-SC             illustrate     various         programming
    configurations                          for           embodiments of   the   subject     system    for
    automating aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                 Figure             GA illustrates                one embodiment    of    a   system   for
20  automating aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                 Figure GB illustrates a close-up cross sectional view of
    one embodiment of a system for automating aspects of the tooth
    brushing process.
                 Figure             7A      illustrates           one embodiment    of   a    system   for
25  automating aspects of the tooth brushing process, wherein a PDA
    or smartphone device is utilized as a master input device.
                 Figure             7B      illustrates           one embodiment    of   a    system   for
    automating aspects of the tooth brushing process, wherein the
    master input device comprises a simple button.
30               Figure             7C      illustrates           one embodiment    of   a   system    for
    automating aspects of the tooth brushing process, wherein the
    master input device comprises a simple button.

     H:\j/cTI Iow ANRN \DhCCUZCU   361I .  I- 15/1l20117
                                                                         -4
                  Figure          8A         illustrates                one      embodiment      of   a   system    for
    automating                 aspects                 of     the   tooth brushing process,                 wherein a
    brushing array is coupled to a handle.
                  Figure          8B         illustrates                one     embodiment       of   a   system    for
  5 automating                 aspects                 of     the tooth brushing process,                   wherein     a
    brushing               array            is        configured            to be       coupled   to    a   finger   or
    tongue.
                  Figures            9A-9C               illustrate           various        aspects    of    a   teeth
    brushing assembly in accordance with the present invention.
 10               Figures            9B        and         9C    are     partial        sectional     views     of  the
    structure depicted in Figure 9A.
                  Figures            10A           and       10B    illustrate           two   views     of   a   teeth
    brushing assembly with coupled motor pack.
                  Figure         10C           illustrates              a    partially        exploded     view of     a
 15 teeth brushing assembly with coupled motor pack.
                  Figure 11 illustrates a head coordinate system associated
    with           a     user's                torso.            Alternatively             a   global     or    ground
    coordinate system is depicted.
                  Figure         12       illustrates                 a    process       for cleaning teeth          in
20  accordance                 with            one         embodiment          of     a   system    for   automating
    aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                  Figure         13       illustrates                 a    process       for   cleaning      teeth   in
    accordance                 with            one         embodiment          of     a  system     for   automating
    aspects of the tooth brushing process.
25                Figure         14       illustrates                 a    process       for cleaning        teeth   in
    accordance                 with            one         embodiment          of     a  system     for   automating
    aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                  Figure         15       illustrates                 a    process       for   cleaning      teeth   in
    accordance                 with            one         embodiment          of     a  system     for   automating
30  aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                  Figure         16       illustrates                 a   process        for   cleaning      teeth   in
    accordance                 with            one         embodiment          of     a  system     for   automating

     iH hfN vot1NRPonb\DCCUZC\I6
        9n                          11 111   /2017
                                                             -5
     aspects of the tooth brushing process.
               Figure            17     illustrates        a   process       for  cleaning      teeth   in
    accordance                 with        one      embodiment     of     a  system    for   automating
    aspects of the tooth brushing process.
  5            Figure            18A      illustrates        one    embodiment      of   a   system    for
    automating aspects of the tooth brushing process.
               Figure 18B illustrates a close-up cross sectional view of
    one embodiment of a system for automating aspects of the tooth
    brushing process.
 10            Figure            18C depicts a            close-up       side view of a        shockwave
    electrode configuration a system for automating aspects of the
    tooth brushing process.
               Figure            19    illustrates         a   process       for  cleaning      teeth   in
    accordance                with        one       embodiment     of     a  system    for   automating
 15 aspects of the tooth brushing process.
                                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    Referring to Figure 1A, flexible dental trays                                    (2) are utilized
    for various applications on modern dentistry, including bite
20  guard          applications,                    grinding    prevention        applications,        and
    impact sport injury prevention applications. They may be custom
    molded           to        fit       a       particular     patient's        teeth,     or    may   be
    configured in one or more off-the-shelf sizes to fit an average
    human dental configuration, as shown in Figure 1B. Referring to
25  Figure 2A, a teeth brushing assembly (6) comprising a flexible
    dental           tray          with         embedded    brushing        features     is   depicted.
    Referring to the cross sectional view of Figure 2B, a flexible
    substrate material                          (44) is formed into a cross sectional shape
    configured               to accommodate              interdigitation          of an upper       tooth
30  (30) as well as a lower tooth                             (28).     The fit of the teeth into
    these        geometric               accommodations,          or    "slots",    may be      a  slight
    interference fit, or may be a slightly loose fit. Too tight an

H:2\p                              36I
      ,Izc~lova\NRPonN\Df)CCUZC~I602   ltocx-13,1 1,2017
                                                                -6
interference                         fit            is   not preferred because it may prevent
relative motion of the brushing panels or pads (32, 34, 36, 38,
40, 42) relative to

     the teeth, as described below.      As shown in Figure 2B, a power
     supply (26) is operatively coupled, via a wire lead (24) in
     the depicted embodiment, to a controller (92),        which is
    operatively coupled to the depicted plurality of brushing pads
  5  (32, 34,  36, 38, 40, 42) that are movably coupled to the
     flexible substrate material     (44) of the tray assembly (6),      in
    this embodiment by one or more wire leads        (8),  the distal
    portions of which (100) may be at least partially encapsulated
    within the flexible substrate material       (44).    As described in
10  further detail below, when the power supply (26) is activated
    and the controller     (92) is configured to operate the brushing
    pads (32, 34,    36, 38, 40, 42),   the brushing pads     (32, 34, 36,
    38, 40, 42) cyclicly motion relative to the substrate material
     (44) and the teeth (i.e., generally in a motion at least
15  somewhat co-planar with the plane of the associated tooth
    surface),   to brush films, deposits, plaque, and other
    materials from the teeth - in a high-frequency tooth brushing
    configuration.     Referring again to Figure 2B, with the
    depicted embodiment, the tooth that becomes engaged in the
20  upper slot    (30) will have a front brushing pad (32) to engage
    the front surface of the upper tooth, a rear brushing pad (34)
    to engage the rear surface of the upper tooth, a top           (or
    "biting surface") brushing pad (36) to engage the top surface
    of the upper tooth, a front brushing pad (38) to engage the
25  front surface of the lower tooth engaged into the lower slot
    (28),  a rear brushing pad    (40) to engage the rear surface of
    the lower tooth, and a top     (or "biting surface") brushing pad
    (42) to engage the top surface of the lower tooth.           In other
    embodiments, one or more brushing pads may be configured to
30  address the surfaces of one or more adjacent teeth.
          Referring back to Figure 2A, a hand held master input
    device  (10),   such as a remote controller console with a
    plurality of buttons, may be utilized to control the system.
                                       7

    The depicted master input device     (10) comprises a stop button
     (22), a frequency of vibration control slider (118), and mode
    control buttons    (12, 14), in this embodiment configured to
    allow the operator to select various different upper teeth
  5 engagement patterns    (for example, only the left upper, only
    the middle upper, only the right upper, or various
    combinations thereof - including all of the uppers at once;
    similarly the lower teeth may be controllably engaged).         One
    control button (16) conveniently allows for full engagement of
10  all brushing pads simultaneously.      A controller interface    (18)
    may comprise a wired port or an antenna, depending upon
    whether the master input device is operatively coupled (96) to
    the controller with a wired or a wireless configuration.
    Similarly, the controller interface      (20) may comprise a wired
15  port or an antenna, depending upon whether the master input
    device is operatively coupled (96) to the controller with a
    wired or a wireless configuration.      The controller   (92) also
    features a programming interface     (98) to allow various teeth
    cleaning programs to be loaded or modified into memory that
20  comprises the controller (92).
          Referring to Figures 2C and 2D, further details of an
    embodiment such as that depicted in Figures 2A and 2B are
    illustrated.    Figure 2C shows a series of teeth (4) captured
    in a tray (or temporarily partially encapsulated in or coupled
25  to the tray) being engaged by a series of brushing pads        (34),
    each of which may be removably coupled to a vibratory
    transducer (46) which is embedded into the flexible substrate
    material  (44).   In another embodiment, the brushing pads      (34)
    may be fixedly coupled to the transducer      (46) and configured
30  to be disposed of at the same time as the transducer       (46) and
    substrate  (44) constructs.    In other words, in a first
    embodiment, the pads (34) are intended to be more disposable
    than the other structures;     in a second embodiment, the
                                      8

     structures that are designed to enter the patient's mouth are
     intended to be disposed of together.   The illustrated
     embodiment shows one brushing pad per tooth, but as noted
     above, other embodiments may feature brushing pads configured
  5  to address more than one adjacent tooth.    Referring to Figure
     2D, a close up side view shows a single vibratory transducer
     (46) coupled to the flexible substrate material    (44),  and also
    coupled to a brushing pad (34) which comprises a brushing
     surface or brushing interface (48).   Preferably the brushing
 10  interface comprises a textured surface configured to remove
    plaque, films, and other materials from the surface of a
    tooth.   In one embodiment, the brushing interface    (48)
    comprises a brushing media such as series of bristles
    comprising natural fibrous materials, or polymeric fibrous
15  materials, such as nylon, polypropylene, polyethylene,
    polyethylene terephthalate, and/or co-polymers thereof, which
    are commonly used in human consumer products.     When the
    transducer is operated, via a current transmitted through the
    control lead (50), the transducer is configured to vibrate
20  relative to the substrate tray around it    (it remains coupled
    to the tray, but produces localized micromotion vibrations),
    and since the transducer is directly coupled to the brushing
    pads, relative motion is produced between the brushing pads
     (34) and the substrate tray (44).   The brushing pads may be
25  disposable or replaceable, and may be removably coupled to the
    transducers with a clip-on "temporarily fixedly coupled" type
    of interface involving a small interference fit clip or the
    like.   The pads (34) may be planar, convex, concave, saddle
    shaped, or have custom surface shapes configured to
30  specifically address certain teeth or dental geometries.       The
    transducers may be piezoelectric transducers, and may be
    configured to operate at frequencies in the ultrasonic range,
    or in other ranges.   The flexible substrate material may
                                    9

    comprise a polymer, and maybe a conformal polymer
    configuration, such as that available under the tradename
    "MC10", which is particularly well suited for embedding wire
    leads, as shown in Figure 2B.
  5        Referring to Figure 3, in one process embodiment, a mold
    of a patient's teeth may be created (52), followed by analysis
    of the mold to optimize a brushing interface design (i.e.,
    optimize the surface shapes of the panels or pads, the shape
    of the tray, the bristle materials, etc)     (54).   A tray may be
10  created comprising a substrate material having integrated
    transducers and related wiring (56).      In another embodiment,
    an off-the-shelf tray size or model may be selected.       Brush
    pads may be removably attached to the transducer interfaces
     (58),  the controller programmed and configured (60),
15  toothpaste or other brushing solution applied to the pads
     (62),  and the assembly engaged (i.e., by placing it into the
    mouth and biting down) (64) so that a program or other control
    paradigm may be executed and the teeth cleaned (66).
    Subsequently the tray assembly may be removed from the mouth
20   (68) and cleaned (70),  for example, by placing the assembly in
    a bath or stream of clean water and briefly operating the
    transducers to shake loose any deposits.
           Referring to Figures 4A-4C and 5A-5C, various programming
    configurations are illustrated.     In the embodiment of Figure
25  4A, a sequential program (72) is configured to work through
    the brushing of the teeth in six portions     (upper left, right,
    and center;    lower left, right, and center).     In the depicted
    embodiment, a cycle change buzz to one or more transducers
    signals the patient or operator that the cycle is changing to
30  the next stage.    Spending approximately 10 seconds at each of
    the six locations, the program    (72) takes approximately one
    minute to execute.    Referring to Figure 4B, another
    programming configuration (74) is shown wherein only two
                                     10

   stages are used to complete the job:     all upper teeth
   simultaneously, followed by all lower teeth simultaneously,
   for a cycle of approximately 20 seconds.     Referring to Figure
   4C, another programming configuration uses a single actuation
 5 stage of all transducers at once to complete the brushing
   cycle in about 10 seconds.     As illustrated in the embodiments
   of Figures SA-5C, frequency modulation may be utilized in the
   cleaning process.   For example, in the programming embodiment
    (78) of Figure 5A, two frequencies may be used sequentially
10  (for example, a low frequency to remove larger bulk plaque,
   followed by a higher frequency for a polishing effect).       The
   programming embodiment   (80) of Figure 5B shows execution of a
   first frequency, then a second frequency, then a return to the
   first frequency (perhaps, low frequency bulk plaque removal,
15 then high frequency polishing, then a return to execute any
   extra bulk plaque removal).     The programming embodiment   (82)
   of Figure 5C shows execution of three sequential frequencies.
         Referring to Figures 6A and 6B, an embodiment similar to
   that of Figures 2A-2D is depicted, with the exception that
20 irrigation and vacuum functionalities are integrated.      The
   master input device (94)   is similar to that of Figure 2A, but
   has controls for irrigation    (84) and vacuum  (86) that are
   configured to cause an irrigation system (102) to infuse fluid
   through the coupling lead    (101) and into the tray assembly    (6)
25 to escape through various pores or lumens formed in the tray
   assembly (6) and generally configured to infuse fluid into
   region of the interface between brushing pads and teeth
   surfaces.   A vacuum system (104) may be similarly utilized to
   evacuate fluid from such sites in the mouth/tray engagement.
30 Referring to Figure 6B, an infusion fluid reservoir (106) may
   contain water, fluoride, or other solutions, and may be
   fluidly coupled (112) to or comprised within the irrigation
   system (102).   The vacuum system may comprise or be fluidly
                                     11

     coupled to  (116) a fluid reservoir (108) to capture waste
     fluids evacuated from the brushing area in situ.       The
     controller is operatively coupled (110, 114) via wire leads to
     the irrigation system (102) and vacuum system      (104) to
  5  controllably engage and disengage these systems.
          Referring to Figure 7A, an embodiment is depicted having
     similar elements as the system depicted, for example, in
     Figure 6A, but wherein the master input device      (120) comprises
    a portable electronic device such as a smartphone, PDA, or the
10   like (i.e., such as the product sold by Apple Computer Corp
    under the tradename iPhone     (RTM)), that is configured to
    operate software to produce a graphical user interface
    comprising digitally presented control buttons       (126) for the
    subject teeth cleaning system.      Referring to Figure 7B, in
15  another embodiment, a master input device      (122) may comprise a
    simple on/off switch or button (124), and referring further to
    Figure 7C, this button need not reside on its own mini-console
     (i.e., as in the embodiment of Figure 7B) - but rather may
    reside, for example, coupled to or co-housed with with
20  controller   (92).
          Referring to Figure 8A, in another embodiment similar to
    that of Figure 7C, a relatively compact brushing array (130),
    comprising a substrate, and one or more transducers and
    brushing pads, as in the embodiment described above, may be
25  coupled to a handle    (128) and configured such that an operator
    may grasp the proximal end (132) of the handle (128) and
    navigate the brushing array (130) around the mouth to brush
    the teeth, in a manner akin to a tooth brush, but with the
    advantages of the high frequency cleaning capabilities
30  provided by the subject configuration.      The brushing array
     (130) may be flexible, and may be geometrically sized in a
    range of sizes:    from a relatively small array approximating
    the size of a dental probe or pick, to a relatively larger
                                      12

     size approximately the size of an adult toothbrush bristle
     array, or longer, to accommodate approximately 1/3 or k of the
     teeth of an operator's upper or lower jaw.     The brushing array
     may be biased to remain relatively straight, or to form a
  5  curved shape, such as a concave or convex shape relative to
     the teeth to which it shall be interfaced.    Referring to
     Figure 8B, an embodiment similar to that of Figure 8A is
     depicted, with the exception that the brushing array    (130) in
     this embodiment is arcuate or curved in a manner to allow
10   engagement   (134) of a finger or portion of the human tongue.
     For example, in one embodiment, a finger may be advanced into
    a position (134) wherein the array (130) substantially
    surrounds it, and this combination may be utilized to navigate
    the mouth of the operator for teeth brushing/cleaning.      In
15  another embodiment, the arcuate array may be temporarily
    coupled to the tongue of the operator, and the tongue may be
    utilized to navigate, and thereby brush/clean, the nearby
    teeth.
          Referring to Figure 9A, a top view of a thin-walled teeth
20  brushing assembly    (6) is depicted with dimensions in inches
    typical for an adult size.     Cross sectional views are shown in
    Figures 9B and 9C.     As shown in Figures 10A-10C, such an
    assembly   (6) may be removably or fixedly coupled to an all-in
    one type of configuration that may be held in one or two hands
25  by the user without additional associated power cords.      For
    example, referring to Figure 10A, the teeth brushing assembly
     (6) is removably or fixedly coupled to a gearbox and battery
    assembly   (144) via a handle member  (140), which is removably
    or fixedly coupled to a motor pack    (142).  Figure lOB
30  illustrates a view 90 degrees orthogonal to the view of Figure
    10A.   Figure lOC illustrates a partially exploded view of a
    similar configuration, with the exception that the motor pack
    (142) is transversely mounted relative to the gearbox/battery
                                     13

     assembly (144).   With an embodiment such as that shown in
     Figures 10A, 10B, or 10C, a user may insert the thin-walled
     teeth brushing assembly (6) into his or her mouth,
     controllably engage the motor pack (142), and receive a
  5  resultant vibratory / oscillatory motion cleaning of all of
     his or her teeth simultaneously, as the battery from the
    battery / gearbox component    (144) is configured to activate
     the motor pack (142),  which is configured to operate the
    gearbox to produce oscillatory / vibratory motion of the
 10 handle   (140) and associated teeth brushing assembly (6).
          Referring to Figure 11,   two coordinate systems  (148, 150)
    are illustrated relative to the user's head (154).     A global
    coordinate system (150) is defined as the coordinate system of
    the ground or floor   (152) around the user.   A torso coordinate
15  system (148) is defined as the coordinate system associated
    with the user's torso as he stands in a room relative to the
    ground.    One of the challenges associated with efficient small
    amplitude vibratory teeth brushing as described herein is
    maintaining adequate irrigation medium, or fluid, between the
20  brushing surfaces of the teeth brushing assembly (6) and the
    subject teeth.    One of the most straightforward ways of
    facilitating localized pooling of irrigation fluid to targeted
    portions of the subject teeth is with the help of gravity.
    For example, the teeth of the mouth may be divided into
25  groupings such as:    upper versus lower;   lower left molars,
    lower incisors, lower right molars, upper right molars, upper
    incisors, upper right molars    (canines being on the borders of
    the latter grouping), etc.    To focus irrigation pooling near
    the incisors, the user may pitch his head forward relative to
30  the torso coordinate system    (148), and depending upon the
    level of such pitch rotation, focus the irrigation pooling
    adjacent the lower incisors, both upper and lower incisors, or
    the upper incisors.    Similarly, to focus irrigation pooling
                                     14

    near the molars, the user may yaw rotate his neck while also
    pitching it relative to the torso coordinate system (148) in
    various configurations to direct irrigation pooling to various
    locations of the molars, pre-molars, canines, etc.         Referring
  5 to Figures 12-17, several embodiments for operating variations
    of the subject invention are illustrated.
          Referring to Figure 12, after a user couples a teeth
    brushing assembly to his teeth by inserting a tray into his
    mouth, the tray comprising or being operatively coupled to one
10  or more electromechanical agitating devices        (156), the
    irrigation system may be engaged (158) to cause fluid to flow
    into the teeth brushing assembly, preferably at a rate that
    may be controlled by the user with a master input device,
    controller knob/interface, or the like.        In one embodiment, to
15  reduce the amount of fluid flow required, the user's lips may
    be pursed around the system control lines        (or handle in an
    all-in-one embodiment similar to that depicted in Figures 10A
    10C);   in another embodiment, the user may allow fluid to
    freely flow out of his mouth, or through a drain or vacuum
20  line.   The user may then    (or simultaneously with engagement of
    the irrigation system in another embodiment) engage the one or
    more agitating actuation devices to cause oscillatory teeth
    cleaning action   (160).   The user may assist with gravitational
    fluid pooling by tilting and/or rotating his head to various
25  positions  (162),  such as:    1)   incisors gravitationally lowest
    for incisor cleaning;    2)    left molars gravitationally lowest
    for left molar cleaning;      3)   right molars gravitationally
    lowest for right molar cleaning;       premolars and canines in the
    overlap between these divisions of the mouth.         With the
30  cleaning complete, irrigation and agitation may be
    controllably discontinued     (164),  such as by the push of a user
    interface button or expiration of a discrete timer time
                                       15

      window, and the teeth brushing assembly removed from the mouth
       (166).
            Referring to Figure 13, a technique and configuration
      similar to that illustrated in Figure 12 is depicted, with the
   5  exception that the user may controllably engage the agitating
      actuation devices by selected quadrants or other groupings
      while also assisting with gravitational fluid pooling by
      tilting and/or rotating his head to various positions     (168).
      In other words, rather than agitating the entire mouth worth
 10   of teeth simultaneously, the user may agitate only a focused
      subportion of the teeth, such as the portion that is receiving
      the irrigation pooling subject to his head/jaw orientation.
            Referring to Figure 14, a user may operate a teeth
      brushing assembly configured to be focused upon a targeted
 15  portion of the overall set of teeth, akin to a toothbrush
      (170).   The irrigation system may be controllably engaged
      (172), along with the agitating actuation (174), which may be
      interrupted during moves of the brushing assembly - or
     alternatively left on during such moves.    The user may assist
20   with irrigation focusing / pooling (176), and the user may
     move   (i.e., with his hands akin to the manner in which a
     toothbrush is moved) the brushing assembly to other positions
     in the mouth   (178).
           Referring to Figure 15, an embodiment similar to that of
25   Figure 13 is illustrated, with the exception that the
     agitation is directed through the tray to various sub-portions
     of the teeth of the mouth in accordance with a predetermined
     program or selection schema   (for example:  bottom first
     left, front, right;    top last - left, front, right;    see
30   aforementioned programming configurations)    (180).
           Referring to Figure 16, after the teeth cleaning assembly
     tray has been inserted in the user's mouth    (156), a discrete
     zone irrigation configuration may be utilized     (182) to direct
                                      16

     H.ap~cdlkrwovdNRponbI\DCCUlZCI60012361
                         d1/5 11/2017
                                              -17
     irrigation to selected sub-portions of the teeth, which may be
     changed over time. In other words, the mouth may be broken up
     into a plurality of targeted zones, each of which receives zone
     irrigation (182) and zone agitation (184) during a 5 selected
  5 portion of the overall brushing time, in accordance with user
     selections regarding targeted zones.
            Referring to Figure 17, an embodiment similar to that of
    Figure      16  is  illustrated,        with the exception      that with the
    embodiment of Figure 17, zone alternating/selection (i.e., the
 10 10 order and timing in which each zone becomes the operative
    zone     for   irrigation         and  agitation)     is  controlled   using   a
    predetermined programming or selection schema (186) which may,
    for example, be at the recommendation of the user's dentist of
    dental hygienist.
 15        As described        in     relation    to  one or more    of the   above
    examples,      the system         for brushing     the teeth of a person in
    accordance       with one embodiment of the invention comprises a
    vibratory       transducer        coupled    to  a   brushing  member;   and  a
    controller operatively              coupled    to the vibratory    transducer,
20  wherein subject to an input from an operator, the controller is
    configured to cause a first reciprocating brushing motion of
    the brushing panel against a surface                   of a tooth at a first
    frequency, followed by a second reciprocating brushing motion
    of the brushing panel against the surface of the tooth at a
25  second frequency different from the first frequency, to clean
    the tooth.
           Referring       to    Figures      18A-19,     another  embodiment    is
    illustrated,       wherein        a  different    agitating   element   may  be
    utilized to break loose plaque and other deposits from teeth in
30  an effort to clean such teeth: a shockwave electrode pair or
    shockwave transducer.
           More particularly, in accordance with another embodiment

                                      i(x-15/1 1/2017
     IlflgcUnriwav'nNRPonhl\DCCUZCIl6002361
                                                                -17A
     of the invention, there is provided a system for brushing the
     teeth of a person, comprising:
                  a.         a    flexible               teeth     tray   configured      to   at    least
    partially encapsulate one or more of the teeth in a flexible
  5  substrate                material,                the   flexible     teeth    tray   comprising       a
    plurality                  of          shockwave           electrode      pairs     configured       to
    controllably transmit shockwaves to the one or more teeth to
    disrupt material which may be coupled to the one or more teeth;
    and
 10               b.         a controller operatively coupled to the plurality of
    shockwave electrode pairs; wherein subject to an input from an
    operator, the controller is configured to cause plurality of
    shockwaves to be directed against one or more surfaces of the
    one or more encapsulated teeth, to clean the one or more teeth.
 15              Referring to Figure 18A, a system similar to that depicted
    in Figure 2A is shown with a teeth brushing assembly comprising
    a flexible tray element                                (44) which is shown in detailed cross
    section in Figure 18B. Referring to Figure 18B, in place of the
    agitating pads (32, 34, 36, 38, 40, 42) of the embodiments of
20  Figures 2B or 6B, the embodiment of Figure 18B has shockwave
    transducer elements or shockwave electrode                                        pairs  (202,    204,
    206, 208, 210, 212) which are configured to create shockwaves
    that are transmitted toward the associated teeth to break loose
    plaque and other deposits from teeth in an effort to clean such
25  teeth.            In      one embodiment,                 each of     the    shockwave   transducer
    elements                (202,        204,         206,   208,    210,   212)   is  coupled    to   the
    flexible substrate material (44) in a position wherein direct
    or nearly direct transfer of shockwave energy to associated
    teeth may be

    accomplished.   As discussed above in reference to Figure 2B,
    the tray is configured such that the teeth are placed into,
    and at least partially surrounded by, the tray in locations
    labeled with elements 30 and 28, which may also be denominated
  5 as "slots" for the teeth.    With a shockwave agitation
    embodiment, the slots may be lined or at least partially
    filled with a transmissive medium or material, such as a fluid
     (i.e., water) or viscous gel   (i.e., a tooth-cleaning paste
    with relatively low-viscosity as compared with conventional
10  toothpastes),  that is configured to optimally transmit
    shockwaves from the transducers     (202, 204, 206, 208, 210, 212)
    to the associated teeth.    Further, in one embodiment, the
    materials surrounding the shockwave transducers      (202, 204,
    206, 208, 210, 212) in directions that are not adjacent the
15  targeted teeth may be configured to absorb or reflect
    shockwaves - to assist in focusing the shockwave energy upon
    the desired targeted teeth and not other structures in the
    mouth or in the device itself.     In the depicted embodiment,
    one shockwave transducer is provided for each of the three
20  exposed sides of an associated tooth.      In another embodiment,
    one shockwave transducer may be configured to provide adequate
    disruption of plaque or other debris, such as the slot base
    pair or transducers   (204, 210) shown in the embodiment of
    Figure 18B.   In other embodiments, more than three shockwave
25  transducers may be provided for each of the associated teeth.
    Each of the shockwave transducers or shockwave electrode pairs
    (202, 204, 206, 208, 210, 212) may comprise a pair of exposed
    electrode portions that are biased to produce a brief short
    circuit when electrified, causing a shockwave local to the
30  exposed electrode portions.    Shockwave technology has been
    utilized in other medical applications, such as lithotripsy
    applications described in U.S. Patent Publication Number 2010
    0036294 to Mantell et al.    Referring to Figure 18C, to
                                     18

     illustrate one configuration for producing a series of
     shockwave transducers or electrode pairs, a close up side view
     of a pair of continuous lead wires    (8) that are mostly
     insulated from each other by insulative layering (214) is
  5  depicted in a linear (i.e., not arcuate or curved, as would be
     the case when such a configuration is embedded into a flexible
     teeth tray substrate such as that depicted in Figure 18A as
     element 6).   At a desired distance longitudinally,
     discontinuities  (214) have been created in the insulative
 10  layer, which result in a series of shockwave electrode
    pairings   (i.e., each electrode formed by a gap in the
     insulative layering that places the polar opposite leads in
    electrical access to each other, to create a short circuit
    when the lead pair is electrified - somewhat like a series of
15  small spark plugs) that may be utilized to generate a series
    of associated shock waves, as facilitated by the intercoupled
    controller (92) and power supply    (26).   In one embodiment, the
    discontinuities may be created in the insulative layering at a
    pitch configured to place one electrode (i.e.,     one
20  discontinuity) at the longitudinal position of each tooth of
    the patient/person.    In another embodiment, discontinuities
    may be placed at a higher pitch, such as every few
    millimeters, or at a greater pitch.     In another embodiment,
    flex circuit or flexible circuit substrate technology may be
25  utilized to manufacture the electrode strings.
          Referring to Figure 19, a process for cleaning teeth with
    a system such as that described in reference to Figures 18A
    18C is depicted;    such a process is similar to that shown in
    Figure 12, with the exception that the electromechanical
30  agitating pads have been replaced with shockwave agitating
    elements  (218, 220).   Similarly, each of the embodiments
    described in reference to Figures 13-17 may be adapted for
    shockwave agitation with shockwave transducer elements in
                                     19

    place of the electromechanical agitating pads.   Other hybrid
    embodiments may incorporate both electromechanical agitation
    and shockwave agitation.
          While embodiments described above, such as those of
 5  Figures 2A-2D, 6A-7C, feature flexible substrate (44)
    materials for the main tray assembly (6),  other embodiments
    may comprise substantially rigid or nonflexible substrate
    materials to retain predetermined tray geometry with a high
    level of precision, and may have coatings or outer layers that
10  are at least somewhat flexible or pliable to accommodate
    atraumatic tissue interaction.
         Various exemplary embodiments of the invention are
   described herein. Reference is made to these examples in a
   non-limiting sense. They are provided to illustrate more
15 broadly applicable aspects of the invention. Various changes
   may be made to the invention described and equivalents may be
   substituted without departing from the true spirit and scope
   of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made
   to adapt a particular situation, material, composition of
20 matter, process, process act(s) or step(s) to the
   objective(s),   spirit or scope of the present invention.
   Further, as will be appreciated by those with skill in the art
   that each of the individual variations described and
   illustrated herein has discrete components and features which
25 may be readily separated from or combined with the features of
   any of the other several embodiments without departing from
   the scope or spirit of the present inventions. All such
   modifications are intended to be within the scope of claims
   associated with this disclosure.
30       Any of the devices described for carrying out the subject
   interventions may be provided in packaged combination for use
   in executing such interventions. These supply "kits" further
                                   20

     may include instructions for use and be packaged in sterile
     trays or containers as commonly employed for such purposes.
           The invention includes methods that may be performed
     using the subject devices. The methods may comprise the act of
  5 providing such a suitable device. Such provision may be
    performed by the end user. In other words, the "providing" act
    merely requires the end user obtain, access, approach,
    position, set-up, activate, power-up or otherwise act to
    provide the requisite device in the subject method. methods
 10 recited herein may be carried out in any order of the recited
    events which is logically possible, as well as in the recited
    order of events.
          Exemplary aspects of the invention, together with details
    regarding material selection and manufacture have been set
15  forth above. As for other details of the present invention,
    these may be appreciated in connection with the above
    referenced patents and publications as well as generally known
    or appreciated by those with skill in the art. For example,
    one with skill in the art will appreciate that one or more
20  lubricious coatings   (e.g., hydrophilic polymers such as
    polyvinylpyrrolidone-based compositions, fluoropolymers such
    as tetrafluoroethylene, hydrophilic gel or silicones) may be
    used in connection with various portions of the devices, such
    as relatively large interfacial surfaces of movably coupled
25  parts, if desired, for example, to facilitate low friction
    manipulation or advancement of such objects relative to other
    portions of the instrumentation or nearby tissue structures.
    The same may hold true with respect to method-based aspects of
    the invention in terms of additional acts as commonly or
30  logically employed.
          In addition, though the invention has been described in
    reference to several examples optionally incorporating various
    features, the invention is not to be limited to that which is
                                    21

     described or indicated as contemplated with respect to each
     variation of the invention. Various changes may be made to the
     invention described and equivalents  (whether recited herein or
     not included for the sake of some brevity) may be substituted
  5  without departing from the true spirit and scope of the
     invention. In addition, where a range of values is provided,
     it is understood that every intervening value, between the
     upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or
     intervening value in that stated range, is encompassed within
 10  the invention.
          Also, it is contemplated that any optional feature of the
     inventive variations described may be set forth and claimed
     independently, or in combination with any one or more of the
     features described herein. Reference to a singular item,
15   includes the possibility that there are plural of the same
     items present. More specifically, as used herein and in claims
    associated hereto, the singular forms "a,"   "an," "said," and
     "the" include plural referents unless the specifically stated
    otherwise. In other words, use of the articles allow for "at
20   least one" of the subject item in the description above as
    well as claims associated with this disclosure. It is further
    noted that such claims may be drafted to exclude any optional
    element. As such, this statement is intended to serve as
    antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as
25  "solely,"  "only" and the like in connection with the
    recitation of claim elements, or use of a "negative"
    limitation.
          Without the use of such exclusive terminology, the term
    "comprising" in claims associated with this disclosure shall
30  allow for the inclusion of any additional element-
    irrespective of whether a given number of elements are
    enumerated in such claims, or the addition of a feature could
    be regarded as transforming the nature of an element set forth
                                   22

   H:jc~ItawvmNRPonbhDCCZCI 6R)2S 1.docx-51 1117
                                                           -23
   in       such claims.                   Except    as   specifically   defined herein,     all
   technical and scientific terms used herein are to be given as
   broad           a      commonly               understood     meaning  as    possible     while
   maintaining claim validity.
 5             The breadth of the present invention is not to be limited
   to the examples provided and/or the subject specification, but
   rather only by the scope of claim language associated with this
   disclosure.
               The       reference                in   this    specification    to   any   prior
10 publication (or information derived from it), or to any matter
   which          is     known,             is    not,   and   should  not  be   taken   as,  an
   acknowledgement                      or admission or any form of suggestion that
   that prior publication                            (or information    derived    from it)   or
   known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the
15 field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

     H1iajr inerwa  \NRPoIrblDCCUZ ikl 2l,_   x-15 /Il 7
                                                                   -24
     The claims defining the invention are as follows:
     1.            A system for brushing the teeth of a person, comprising:
                   a vibratory transducer coupled to a brushing member; and
  5                a         controller                  operatively     coupled    to    the   vibratory
     transducer,
                   wherein                subject          to   an    input  from    an   operator,    the
     controller                      is       configured         to    cause  a  first     reciprocating
    brushing motion of the brushing panel against a surface of a
 10  tooth at a first frequency, followed by a second reciprocating
    brushing motion of the brushing panel against the surface of
     the          tooth            at       a      second     frequency    different    from   the   first
     frequency, to clean the tooth.
15  2.             The system of claim 1,                          wherein the second frequency is
    higher than the first frequency.
    3.             The system of claim 2,                           wherein the first      reciprocating
    brushing motion at the first frequency is configured to remove
20  plaque from the tooth.
    4.             The system of claim 2, wherein the second reciprocating
    brushing motion at the second frequency is configured to polish
    the tooth.
25
    5.             The           system              of   claim    1,   wherein   the     controller    is
    configured to cause the first reciprocating brushing motion at
    the first frequency for a first period of time and the second
    reciprocating                         brushing motion at the second frequency                   for a
30  second period of time.
    6.             The          system               of   claim    1,   wherein   the    controller     is

        H:\jc~hanvnNRoril\D C\I~i10023161_ldacxd5/1l/2(117
                                                                      -25
     configured to cause a third reciprocating brushing motion of
     the brushing panel                                    against the surface        of the tooth at the
     first frequency after the second reciprocating brushing motion.
  5  7.        The system of claim 6,                                  the controller is      configured to
    cause          the third reciprocating                                brushing motion at       the  first
    frequency for a third period of time.
    8.         The            system                  of      claim   1,    wherein    the   controller    is
 10 configured to cause a third reciprocating brushing motion of
    the brushing panel against the surface of the tooth at a third
    frequency different                                     from the first      frequency and the second
    frequency after the second reciprocating brushing motion.
 15 9.         The system of claim 8,                                 the controller is       configured to
    cause          the third reciprocating                                brushing motion at      the third
    frequency for a third period of time.
    10.       The system of claim 1, further comprising a master input
20  device operatively coupled to the controller and configured to
    receive             a command                         from   the operator      and deliver    a  control
    signal to the controller.
    11.       The system of claim 1,                                 wherein the vibratory transducer
25  comprises a piezoelectric transducer.
    12.       The            system                  of       claim   11,    wherein    the   piezoelectric
    transducer                        is           configured           to    oscillate     at   ultrasonic
    frequencies.
30
    13.       The            system                 of       claim   1,    wherein    the   brushing   panel
    comprises a substrate panel coupled to a brushing media.

     Hf:l/c\Ilmerwomi\RPoPnN\DCCUZC l6W1236II locx- 11/1U2017
                                                                        -26
     14.              The system of claim 13,                              wherein the substrate panel is
     removably coupled to the vibratory transducer.
  5  15.              The system of claim 14, wherein an interference fit clip
     fitting is utilized to removably couple the substrate panel to
     the vibratory transducer.
     16.             The system of claim 13,                              wherein the substrate panel is
 10  fixedly coupled to the vibratory transducer.
    17.              The         system               of      claim    13,   wherein    the  brushing   media
    comprises one or more flexible bristles.
 15 18.              The system of claim 17, wherein the one or more flexible
    bristles comprise a natural fiber.
    19.             The system of claim 17, wherein the one or more flexible
    bristles comprise a manufactured fiber.
20
    20.             The system of claim 1, further comprising a flexible teeth
    tray configured to at least partially encapsulate one or more
    of the teeth in                                 a flexible substrate material,               the flexible
    teeth                 tray         comprising                 the   vibratory     transducer    removably
25  coupled to the brushing panel.
    21.             A system for brushing the teeth of a person, comprising:
                    a.           a      flexible                teeth    tray    configured     to  at  least
    partially encapsulate one or more of the teeth in a flexible
30  substrate                     material,                   the   flexible     teeth   tray   comprising   a
    plurality                       of           shockwave            electrode     pairs     configured   to
    controllably transmit shockwaves to the one or more teeth to

     H y1.c\Ilkn\-.NRPntbI\DCCUZC\1600236_L dI111/217
                                                               -27
     disrupt material which may be coupled to the one or more teeth;
     and
                    b.          a controller operatively coupled to the plurality of
     shockwave electrode pairs;
  5                 wherein               subject       to  an    input   from    an   operator,    the
    controller is configured to cause plurality of shockwaves to be
    directed                   against            one or    more   surfaces    of   the  one  or  more
    encapsulated teeth, to clean the one or more teeth.
 10 22.             The system of claim 21, wherein the flexible teeth tray is
    configured to clean each of the teeth of the upper or lower
    jaw, the tray comprising plurality of shockwave electrode pairs
    positioned adjacent each of the teeth of the upper or lower
    jaw.
 15
    23.             The system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of shockwave
    electrode                   pairs           are    at  least    partially    encapsulated    in   a
    transmissive material configured                                 to isolate the one or more
    teeth from the plurality of shockwave electrode pairs,                                       while
20  also             transmitting                  shockwaves    generated    at   the  plurality of
    shockwave electrode pairs to the one or more teeth.
    24.             The system of claim 23, wherein the transmissive material
    comprises a fluid.
25
    25.             The system of claim 23, wherein the transmissive material
    comprises a viscous gel material.
    26.             The system of claim 21, further comprising a master input
30  device operatively coupled to the controller and configured to
    receive                 a command               from  the   operator    and deliver     a control
    signal to the controller.

                        1ocel5/1t/2071
                     pv 6
                                                 -28
    27.   The system of claim 26,                 wherein the master input device
    comprises a handheld remote control interface.
  5 28.   The   system        of        claim  27,    wherein   the  handheld  remote
    control interface is operatively coupled to the controller with
    a wireless interface.
    29.   The   system       of         claim  27,   wherein    the  handheld  remote
 10 control interface is operatively coupled to the controller with
    a wired interface.
    30.   The system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of shockwave
    electrode pairs are operatively coupled to the controller with
15  a wired interface.
    31.    The system of claim 30, wherein at least a portion of the
    wired   interface        is        encapsulated     in  the   flexible  substrate
    material.
20
    32.   The system of claim 21,                  wherein the flexible     substrate
    material comprises a polymer.
    33.   The system of claim 32,                  wherein    the polymer   comprises
25  MClO.
    34.   The  system       of         claim  21,    wherein   at  least  one of  the
    plurality of shockwave electrode pairs is interfaced with an
    inside surface, an outside surface, or a biting surface of a
30  tooth.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
