ABSTRACT
A directional display may include a waveguide. The waveguide may include light
extraction features arranged to direct light from an array of light sources by total
internal reflection to an array of viewing windows and a reflector arranged to direct
light from the waveguide by transmission through extraction features of the waveguide
to the same array of viewing windows. The brightness of the directional display can be
increased. An efficient and bright autostereoscopic display system can be achieved.

     WO 2014/130860                                        PCT/US2014/017779
                          29/67
                 1            325                       226
     z       A   '12
                              30
           {                                  -               310
300.
             309
                     311           315          312
                         FIG. 26
                                                      1  226
                                                                 12
       z
                          305                                    307
                                       310      312
         300             FIG. 27
           1                          -- 226
                                                                 12
                     300          312
              x                            314    310        312
                         FIG. 28A

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
                                Directional backlight
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001] This   application claims    priority to U.S.     Provisional  Patent Application No.
61/768,371, entitled "Directional backlight," filed February 22, 2013 (Attorney Ref. No.
95194936.355000),      to U.S.    Provisional Patent Application No. 61/791,112,         entitled
"Directional backlight," filed March 15, 2013 (Attorney Ref. No. 95194936.355000A), and
to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/890,456, entitled "Energy efficient directional
backlight," filed October 14, 2013 (Attorney Ref. No. 95194936.355000B), all of which are
herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.     This application is also related to U.S.
Patent Application No. 13/837,466, entitled "Polarization recovery in a directional display
device," filed March 15, 2013 (Attorney Ref. No. 95194936.325001) which is herein
incorporated by reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0002] This disclosure generally relates to illumination of light modulation devices, and more
specifically relates to light guides for providing large area illumination from localized light
sources for use in 2D display devices.
BACKGROUND
 [0003] Spatially multiplexed autostereoscopic displays typically align a parallax component
such as a lenticular screen or parallax barrier with an array of images arranged as at least first
and second sets of pixels on a spatial light modulator, for example an LCD. The parallax
component directs light from each of the sets of pixels into different respective directions to
provide first and second viewing windows in front of the display. An observer with an eye
placed in the first viewing window can see a first image with light from the first set of pixels;
and with an eye placed in the second viewing window can see a second image, with light
from the second set of pixels.
 [0004] Such displays have reduced spatial resolution compared to the native resolution of the
spatial light modulator and further, the structure of the viewing windows is determined by the
pixel aperture shape and parallax component imaging function. Gaps between the pixels, for
example for electrodes, typically produce non-uniform viewing windows. Undesirably such
displays exhibit image flicker as an observer moves laterally with respect to the display and
so limit the viewing freedom of the display. Such flicker can be reduced by defocusing the
                                                 1

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
optical elements; however such defocusing results in increased levels of image cross talk and
increases visual strain for an observer. Such flicker can be reduced by adjusting the shape of
the pixel aperture, however such changes can reduce display brightness and can include
addressing electronics in the spatial light modulator.
BRIEF SUMMARY
 [0005] According to a first aspect of the present disclosure, there may be provided viewing
windows. The viewing windows may be provided by transmission of light extraction features
of a waveguide. The light extraction features can be aligned with viewing windows provided
by total internal reflection of light from the light extraction features. A bright and power
efficient display can be achieved.
 [0006] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there may be provided a
directional backlight which may include a waveguide and an array of light sources disposed
at different input positions in a lateral direction across the input end of the waveguide. The
waveguide may include an input end, first and second opposed guide surfaces for guiding
light along the waveguide, and a reflective end facing the input end for reflecting the input
light back through the waveguide. The first guide surface may be arranged to guide light by
total internal reflection and the second guide surface may have a stepped shape. The stepped
shape may include a plurality of facets oriented to reflect light from the light sources, after
reflection from the reflective end, through the first guide surface into optical windows in
output directions. The output directions may be distributed in a lateral direction to the normal
to the first guide surface and primarily in dependence on the input positions, and intermediate
regions between the facets that may be arranged to direct light through the waveguide without
extracting it. The directional backlight may also include a rear reflector which may include a
linear array of reflective facets arranged to reflect light from the light sources. The light may
be transmitted through the plurality of facets of the waveguide, back through the waveguide
to exit through the first guide surface into said optical windows.
 [0007] The directional backlight may include a diffuser disposed to receive light output
through the first guide surface. The diffuser may be an asymmetric diffuser which may be
arranged to provide greater angular dispersion in a direction approximately orthogonal to the
lateral direction than in the lateral direction. The directional backlight may include a Fresnel
lens which may have optical power in at least the lateral direction, and which may be
disposed between the first guide surface of the waveguide and the diffuser. In another
                                                 2

 WO 2014/130860                                                                    PCT/US2014/017779
example, the Fresnel lens may have optical power at least in the lateral direction disposed to
receive light output through the first guide surface.
 [0008] The waveguide of the directional backlight may include facets which may be
reflective facets of the rear reflector and which may be inclined in the same sense in a
common plane approximately orthogonal to the lateral direction. The facets of the waveguide
may be inclined at an approximate angle (K/2 -a) to the normal to the first guide surface and
the reflective facets of the rear reflector may be inclined at an angle         p to the normal to the
                                  2
first guide surface, and 2p >  K/   - sin' ( n . sin ( a - Oc)), with Oc being the critical angle of the
facets of the waveguide and n being the refractive index of the material of the waveguide.
 [0009] The rear reflector of the directional backlight may be spaced from the waveguide such
that the light from an individual facet of the waveguide is incident on plural reflective facets
of the rear reflector. The rear reflector may further include intermediate facets which may
extend between the reflective facets of the rear reflector. The intermediate facets may be
inclined in an opposite sense from the reflective facets of the rear reflector at an angle such
that the light from the light sources that is transmitted through the plurality of facets of the
waveguide may not be incident on the intermediate facets. The reflective facets of the rear
reflector may have an irregular pitch. The reflective facets of the rear reflector have an
irregular, randomised pitch. The reflective facets of the rear reflector may have an inclination
that varies across the array of reflective facets. The reflective facets of the rear reflector may
be linear. The reflective facets of the rear reflector may be curved. The reflective facets of
the rear reflector may be undulating along their length.              The rear reflector may further
comprise a diffusing surface on at least some of the reflective facets.
 [0010] In one example, the facets of the rear reflector may be disposed behind respective
ones of the facets of the waveguide and arranged to reflect substantially all of the light from
the light sources that is transmitted through the respective one of the facets of the waveguide.
The reflective end may have positive optical power in a lateral direction across the
waveguide. The rear reflector may be formed by at least two polarized reflector sheets
arranged to reflect light that is polarized in respective polarization directions that are
orthogonal to each other, the polarized reflector sheets being shaped to form said linear array
of reflective facets. Advantageously the cost of the rear reflector may be reduced.
 [0011] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there may be provided a
directional display device which may include the previously discussed directional backlight,
                                                    3

WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
and a transmissive spatial light modulator which may be arranged to receive the output light
from the first guide surface.
[0012] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there may be provided a display
apparatus which may include the previously discussed directional display device and a
control system which may be arranged to selectively operate the light sources to direct light
into optical windows corresponding to the output directions. The display apparatus may be
an autostereoscopic display apparatus in which the control system may be further arranged to
control the display device to display temporally multiplexed left and right images and
substantially synchronously to direct the displayed images into viewing windows in positions
corresponding to left and right eyes of an observer.               The control system of the
autostereoscopic display apparatus may include a sensor system which may be arranged to
detect the position of an observer across the display device. Further, the control system may
be arranged to direct the output light into optical windows selected in dependence on the
detected position of the observer.
[0013] According to another aspect of the present disclosure a directional backlight may
comprise a waveguide comprising an input end; a single light source disposed at a
predetermined input position in a lateral direction across the input end of the waveguide, the
waveguide further comprising first and second, opposed guide surfaces for guiding light
along the waveguide, and a reflective end facing the input end for reflecting the input light
back through the waveguide, the first guide surface being arranged to guide light by total
internal reflection and the second guide surface having a stepped shape comprising (a) a
plurality of facets oriented to reflect light from the light source, after reflection from the
reflective end, through the first guide surface into an optical window in an output direction
positioned in a lateral direction in dependence on the input position of the light source, and
(b) intermediate regions between the facets that are arranged to guide light through the
waveguide;      a rear reflector comprising an array of reflective facets arranged to reflect light
from the light source, that is transmitted through the plurality of facets of the waveguide,
back through the waveguide to exit through the first guide surface into said optical windows.
[0014] Advantageously the cost of the light source is reduced, and tracking technologies are
not required, further reducing cost and increasing device lifetime. Further high gain optical
output can be achieved with high optical efficiency.
[0015] According to other aspects of the present disclosure, the imaging directional backlight
may include a waveguide for guiding light. The waveguide may include a first light guiding
                                                4

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
surface operable to direct light from an illuminator array in a first direction, a second light
guiding surface, operable to allow light to exit the waveguide, and a light input surface
operable to receive light from the illuminator array.
 [0016] Display backlights in general employ waveguides and edge emitting sources. Certain
imaging directional backlights have the additional capability of directing the illumination
through a display panel into viewing windows. An imaging system may be formed between
multiple sources and the respective window images. One example of an imaging directional
backlight is an optical valve that may employ a folded optical system and hence may also be
an example of a folded imaging directional backlight.        Light may propagate substantially
without loss in one direction through the optical valve while counter-propagating light may
be extracted by reflection off tilted facets as described in Pat. App. Ser. No. 13/300,293,
which is herein incorporated by reference, in its entirety.
 [0017] Embodiments herein may provide an autostereoscopic display with large area and thin
structure. Further, as will be described, the waveguides of the present disclosure may achieve
thin optical components with large back working distances. Such components can be used in
directional backlights, to provide directional displays including autostereoscopic displays.
Further, embodiments may provide a controlled illuminator for the purposes of an efficient
autostereoscopic display, and efficient 2D display, a high brightness 2D display or 2D
displays achieving a privacy function.
 [0018] Embodiments of the present disclosure may be used in a variety of optical systems.
The embodiment may include or work with a variety of projectors, projection systems,
optical components, displays, microdisplays, computer systems, processors, self-contained
projector systems, visual and/or audiovisual systems and electrical and/or optical devices.
Aspects of the present disclosure may be used with practically any apparatus related to
optical and electrical devices, optical systems, presentation systems or any apparatus that may
contain any type of optical system. Accordingly, embodiments of the present disclosure may
be employed in optical systems, devices used in visual and/or optical presentations, visual
peripherals and so on and in a number of computing environments.
[0019] Before proceeding to the disclosed embodiments in detail, it should be understood
that the disclosure is not limited in its application or creation to the details of the particular
arrangements shown, because the disclosure is capable of other embodiments.            Moreover,
aspects of the disclosure may be set forth in different combinations and arrangements to
                                                 5

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
define embodiments unique in their own right. Also, the terminology used herein is for the
purpose of description and not of limitation.
 [0020] Directional backlights      offer   control   over the illumination      emanating    from
substantially the entire output surface controlled typically through modulation of independent
LED light sources arranged at the input aperture side of an optical waveguide.          Controlling
the emitted light directional distribution can achieve single person viewing for a security
function, where the display can only be seen by a single viewer from a limited range of
angles; high electrical efficiency, where illumination may be provided over a small angular
directional distribution; alternating left and right eye viewing for time sequential stereoscopic
and autostereoscopic display; and low cost.
 [0021] These and other advantages and features of the present disclosure will become
apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure in its entirety.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0022] Embodiments are illustrated by way of example in the accompanying FIGURES, in
which like reference numbers indicate similar parts, and in which:
 [0023] FIGURE 1A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of light propagation in
one embodiment of a directional display device, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0024] FIGURE 1B is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of light propagation in
one embodiment of the directional display device of FIGURE 1A, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
 [0025] FIGURE 2A is a schematic diagram illustrating in a top view of light propagation in
another embodiment of a directional display device, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
 [0026] FIGURE 2B is a schematic diagram illustrating light propagation in a front view of
the directional display device of FIGURE 2A, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0027] FIGURE 2C is a schematic diagram illustrating light propagation in a side view of
the directional display device of FIGURE 2A, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0028] FIGURE 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating in a side view of a directional display
device, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0029] FIGURE 4A is schematic diagram illustrating in a front view, generation of a
viewing window in a directional display device and including curved light extraction
features, in accordance with the present disclosure;
                                                  6

 WO 2014/130860                                                             PCT/US2014/017779
 [0030] FIGURE 4B is a schematic diagram illustrating in a front view, generation of a first
and a second viewing window in a directional display device and including curved light
extraction features, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0031] FIGURE 5 is a schematic diagram illustrating generation of a first viewing window
in a directional display device including linear light extraction features, in accordance with
the present disclosure;
 [0032] FIGURE 6A is a schematic diagram illustrating one embodiment of the generation of
a first viewing window in a time multiplexed directional display device, in accordance with
the present disclosure;
 [0033] FIGURE 6B is a schematic diagram illustrating another embodiment                 of the
generation of a second viewing window in a time multiplexed directional display device in a
second time slot, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0034] FIGURE 6C is a schematic diagram illustrating another embodiment of the
generation of a first and a second viewing window in a time multiplexed directional display
device, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0035] FIGURE 7 is a schematic diagram illustrating an observer tracking autostereoscopic
directional display device, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0036] FIGURE 8 is a schematic diagram illustrating a multi-viewer directional display
device, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0037] FIGURE 9 is a schematic diagram illustrating a privacy directional display device, in
accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0038] FIGURE 10 is a schematic diagram illustrating in side view, the structure of a
directional display device, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0039] FIGURE 11 is a schematic diagram illustrating control system for an observer
tracking directional display apparatus, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0040] FIGURE 12 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a directional display
device with a rear reflector with an array of reflective facets, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
 [0041] FIGURE 13 is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a directional display
device with a waveguide with linear light extraction features and a rear reflector with an array
of linear reflective facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
                                                 7

WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
[0042] FIGURE 14 is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a directional display
device with a waveguide with curved light extraction features and a rear reflector with an
array of linear reflective facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0043] FIGURE 15A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a directional display
device with a waveguide with curved light extraction features and a rear reflector with an
array of curved reflective facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0044] FIGURE 15B is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a directional
backlight including the waveguide and rear reflector of FIGURE 15A, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[0045] FIGURE 15C is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a rear reflector
comprising randomized reflective facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0046] FIGURE 16 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a directional display
device with a waveguide, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0047] FIGURE 17 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity against
propagation angle outside and within a waveguide, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0048] FIGURE 18 is a schematic diagram illustrating a further side view of a directional
display device with a waveguide, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0049] FIGURE 19A is a schematic diagram illustrating front and side views of an
asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0050] FIGURE 19B is a schematic diagram illustrating front and side views of an
asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0051] FIGURE 19C is a schematic diagram illustrating front and side views of an
asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0052] FIGURE 20 is a schematic diagram illustrating a further side view of a waveguide
with silvered light extraction features, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0053] FIGURE 21 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity against
propagation angle outside and within the waveguide of FIGURE 20, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[0054] FIGURE 22 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity against
propagation angle for light exiting the waveguide of FIGURE 16 by means of reflection from
light extraction features prior to an asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
                                                 8

 WO 2014/130860                                                             PCT/US2014/017779
 [0055] FIGURE 23 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity against
propagation angle for light exiting the waveguide of FIGURE 16 by means of reflection from
light extraction features after an asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[0056] FIGURE 24A is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of ray propagation paths
in a waveguide by means of transmission through light extraction features, in accordance
with the present disclosure;
[0057] FIGURE 24B is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle for light exiting the waveguide of FIGURE 24A by means of
transmission through light extraction features, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0058] FIGURE 25A is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of ray propagation paths
in a waveguide by means of transmission through light extraction features and interacting
from reflecting facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0059] FIGURE 25B is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of ray propagation paths
in a waveguide by means of transmission through light extraction features and further
interacting with light guiding features and reflecting facets, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
 [0060] FIGURE 25C is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of ray propagation paths
in a waveguide by means of transmission through light extraction features, interacting with
light guiding features, further comprising a layer arranged between the waveguide and
reflecting features, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0061] FIGURES 26 is a schematic diagram illustrating a detail of side views of a
waveguide with a rear reflector with an array of reflective facets, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
 [0062] FIGURE 27 is a schematic diagram illustrating a detail of side views of a waveguide
with a rear reflector with an array of reflective facets, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
 [0063] FIGUREs 28A-28E are schematic diagrams illustrating a detail of side views of a
waveguide with a rear reflector with an array of reflective facets, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
 [0064] FIGURES 28F-281         are schematic diagrams illustrating side views of methods to
form a rear reflector, in accordance with the present disclosure;
                                                9

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
 [0065] FIGURES 28J-28K            are schematic diagrams illustrating front views of rear
reflectors, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0066] FIGURE 29 is a schematic diagram illustrating a detail of a further side view of a
waveguide with a rear reflector with an array of reflective facets, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
 [0067] FIGURE 30 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity against
propagation angle from a directional backlight apparatus with a waveguide with a rear
reflector with an array of reflective facets before an asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with
the present disclosure;
[0068] FIGURE 31 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity against
propagation angle from a directional backlight apparatus with a waveguide with a rear
reflector with an array of reflective facets after an asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with
the present disclosure;
[0069] FIGURE 32A is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle from a directional backlight apparatus with a waveguide with a rear
reflector with an array of reflective facets after an asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with
the present disclosure;
[0070] FIGURE 32B is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle from a directional backlight apparatus with a waveguide with a rear
reflector with an array of reflective facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0071] FIGURE 32C is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle from a directional backlight apparatus with a waveguide with a rear
reflector with an array of reflective facets after an asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with
the present disclosure;
[0072] FIGURE 32D is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of the use of the optical
output of the present embodiments in a display arranged on a table surface, in accordance
with the present disclosure;
[0073] FIGURE 32E is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a rear reflector
wherein the facets of the rear reflector are concave and arranged to image light from
respective aligned light extraction features of an optical valve, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
                                                 10

WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
[0074] FIGURE 32F is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle from a directional backlight apparatus comprising the arrangement
of FIGURE 32E, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0075] FIGURE 33A is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a directional display
device with a waveguide with a rear reflector with an array of reflective facets, a Fresnel lens
and an asymmetric diffuser, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0076] FIGURE 33B is a schematic diagram illustrating exemplary ray paths used to
determine the relationship between the curvatures of light extraction features and rear
reflector facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0077] FIGURE 33C is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of extracted ray angles
against incident ray angles as illustrated in FIGURE 33B, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[0078] FIGURE 33D is a schematic illustrating the ray paths traced to optimize illumination
system design, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0079] FIGURE 33E is a schematic illustrating the off-extraction feature and off-reflection
facet ray paths traced to optimize illumination system design, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[0080] FIGURE 33F is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of ray emitting position
versus horizontal screen position for those rays emanating from a single viewing point either
reflecting off extraction features or reflector facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0081] FIGURE 34 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of an embodiment of a
directional display device with polarization recovery, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[0082] FIGURE 35A is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of an embodiment of a
directional display device with polarization recovery of FIGURE 34, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[0083] FIGURE 35B is a schematic diagram illustrating a further side view of a detail of the
polarization recovery arrangement of FIGURE 34, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0084] FIGURE 35C is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of the polarization
recovery arrangement of FIGURE 34, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0085] FIGURE 35D is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a symmetric diffuser
for use in the arrangement of FIGURE 36A, in accordance with the present disclosure;
                                                  11

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
 [0086] FIGURE 35E is a schematic diagram illustrating a perspective view of an optical
stack-up comprising an optical valve, a rear reflector, an optical control layer and a spatial
light modulator, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0087] FIGURES 35F-35I are schematic diagrams illustrating side views of an optical stack
up comprising an optical control layers and a spatial light modulator , in accordance with the
present disclosure;
 [0088] FIGURES 36A-36B are schematic diagrams illustrating further side views of
polarization recovery arrangements, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0089] FIGURES 37A-37B are schematic diagrams illustrating a side view of a polarization
recovery arrangement, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0090] FIGURE 37C is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of an optical valve
comprising a light scattering feature and a rear reflector, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
 [0091] FIGURE 37D is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of the appearance of
an optical valve comprising a light scattering feature and a rear reflector, in accordance with
the present disclosure;
 [0092] FIGURE 37E is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of an optical valve
comprising a light scattering feature and a rear reflector further comprising a light scattering
facet surface, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0093] FIGURE 37F is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of the appearance of
an optical valve comprising a light scattering feature and a rear reflector further comprising a
light scattering facet surface, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0094] FIGURE 37G is a schematic diagram illustrating a perspective view of a light
extraction feature of an optical valve comprising an undulating structure, in accordance with
the present disclosure;
 [0095] FIGURE 37H-371 are schematic diagrams illustrating perspective views of rear
reflectors comprising an undulating structure, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0096] FIGURE 38A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a polarization
recovery embodiment comprising curved facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0097] FIGURE 38B is a schematic diagram illustrating recirculated ray paths traced to
optimize backlight design, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [0098] FIGURE 39 is a schematic diagram illustrating recirculated rays double reflecting off
the reflector film facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
                                                12

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
 [0099] FIGURE 40 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of ray emitting position
versus horizontal screen position for those rays emanating from a single viewing point and
either undergoing recirculation or not, and then reflecting either off extraction features or
reflector facets, in accordance with the present disclosure;
 [00100]         FIGURE 41 is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of an optical
valve arranged in portrait orientation to provide a horizontal 2D viewing window, in
accordance with the present disclosure;
[00101]          FIGURE 42A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of an optical
valve arranged in landscape orientation to provide a vertical 2D viewing window, in
accordance with the present disclosure;
[00102]          FIGURES 42B-42D are schematic diagram illustrating graphs of light
emitting element luminous flux with position in light emitting element arrays, in accordance
with the present disclosure;
[00103]          FIGURES 43A-43B are schematic diagrams illustrating front and side views
of an optical valve arranged with a reflector at the input side to redirect returning light into a
wide viewing cone and an integrated Fresnel mirror, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[00104]          FIGURES 43C-43D are schematic diagrams illustrating further front views of
an optical valve arranged with a reflector at the input side to redirect returning light into a
wide viewing cone and an integrated Fresnel mirror, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[00105]          FIGURE 43E is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of a luminous
intensity distribution from the arrangement of FIGURE 43A, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[00106]          FIGURES 44A-44B are schematic diagrams illustrating front and side views
of an optical valve further comprising an asymmetric diffuser arranged near the reflecting end
to improve output uniformity, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[00107]          FIGURES 44C-44D are schematic diagrams illustrating front views of a
method to form an optical valve, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[00108]          FIGURE 45A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of an optical
valve in a first assembly step comprising an LED array arranged on a first device frame and a
Fresnel mirror arranged on a second device frame, in accordance with the present disclosure;
                                                13

WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
[00109]        FIGURE 45B is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of an optical
valve in a second assembly step comprising an LED array arranged on a first device frame
and a Fresnel mirror arranged on a second device frame, in accordance with the present
disclosure;
[00110]        FIGURE 46A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a battery for
display devices comprising a reflective film, in accordance with the present disclosure;
[00111]        FIGURES 46B-46C are schematic diagrams illustrating side views batteries
for display device comprising a reflective film, in accordance with the present disclosure; and
[00112]        FIGURE 47 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a display
device comprising a reflective film arranged on a wedged battery, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[00113]        FIGURE 48 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a display
device comprising a slotted side wall for LED placement to achieve reduced bezel width, in
accordance with the present disclosure; and
[00114]        FIGURE 49 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a display
device comprising a slotted side wall for mirror placement to achieve reduced bezel width, in
accordance with the present disclosure.
                                               14

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [00115]        Time multiplexed autostereoscopic displays can advantageously improve the
spatial resolution of autostereoscopic display by directing light from all of the pixels of a
spatial light modulator to a first viewing window in a first time slot, and all of the pixels to a
second viewing window in a second time slot.         Thus an observer with eyes arranged to
receive light in first and second viewing windows will see a full resolution image across the
whole of the display over multiple time slots. Time multiplexed displays can advantageously
achieve directional illumination by directing an illuminator array through a substantially
transparent time multiplexed spatial light modulator using directional optical elements,
wherein the directional optical elements substantially form an image of the illuminator array
in the window plane.
[00116]         The uniformity of the viewing windows may be advantageously independent
of the arrangement of pixels in the spatial light modulator. Advantageously, such displays
can provide observer tracking displays which have low flicker, with low levels of cross talk
for a moving observer.
[00117]         To achieve high uniformity in the window plane, it is desirable to provide an
array of illumination elements that have a high spatial uniformity. The illuminator elements
of the time sequential illumination system may be provided, for example, by pixels of a
spatial light modulator with size approximately 100 micrometers in combination with a lens
array.   However, such pixels suffer from similar difficulties as for spatially multiplexed
displays.     Further, such devices may have low efficiency and higher cost, requiring
additional display components.
[00118]         High    window     plane  uniformity  can   be   conveniently    achieved    with
macroscopic illuminators, for example, an array of LEDs in combination with homogenizing
and diffusing optical elements that are typically of size 1 mm or greater.         However, the
increased size of the illuminator elements means that the size of the directional optical
elements increases proportionately. For example, a 16 mm wide illuminator imaged to a 65
mm wide viewing window may require a 200 mm back working distance.                     Thus, the
increased thickness of the optical elements can prevent useful application, for example, to
mobile displays, or large area displays.
[00119]         Addressing the aforementioned shortcomings, optical valves as described in
commonly-owned U.S. Patent Application No. 13/300,293 advantageously can be arranged in
combination with fast switching transmissive spatial light modulators to achieve time
                                                15

 WO 2014/130860                                                             PCT/US2014/017779
multiplexed autostereoscopic illumination in a thin package while providing high resolution
images with flicker free observer tracking and low levels of cross talk. Described is a one
dimensional array of viewing positions, or windows, that can display different images in a
first, typically horizontal, direction, but contain the same images when moving in a second,
typically vertical, direction.
 [00120]         Conventional non-imaging display backlights commonly employ optical
waveguides and have edge illumination from light sources such as LEDs. However, it should
be appreciated that there are many fundamental differences in the function, design, structure,
and operation between such conventional non-imaging display backlights and the imaging
directional backlights discussed in the present disclosure.
[00121]          Generally, for example, in accordance with the present disclosure, imaging
directional backlights are arranged to direct the illumination from multiple light sources
through a display panel to respective multiple viewing windows in at least one axis. Each
viewing window is substantially formed as an image in at least one axis of a light source by
the imaging system of the imaging directional backlight. An imaging system may be formed
between multiple light sources and the respective window images. In this manner, the light
from each of the multiple light sources is substantially not visible for an observer's eye
outside of the respective viewing window.
[00122]          In contradistinction, conventional non-imaging backlights or light guiding
plates (LGPs) are used for illumination of 2D displays.        See, e.g., Kalil Kalantar et al.,
Backlight Unit With Double Surface Light Emission, J. Soc. Inf. Display, Vol. 12, Issue 4, pp.
379-387 (Dec. 2004).         Non-imaging backlights are typically arranged to direct the
illumination from multiple light sources through a display panel into a substantially common
viewing zone for each of the multiple light sources to achieve wide viewing angle and high
display uniformity. Thus non-imaging backlights do not form viewing windows.             In this
manner, the light from each of the multiple light sources may be visible for an observer's eye
at substantially all positions across the viewing zone.       Such conventional non-imaging
backlights may have some directionality, for example, to increase screen gain compared to
Lambertian illumination, which may be provided by brightness enhancement films such as
BEFTM from 3M. However, such directionality may be substantially the same for each of the
respective light sources.      Thus, for these reasons and others that should be apparent to
persons of ordinary skill, conventional non-imaging backlights are different to imaging
directional backlights. Edge lit non-imaging backlight illumination structures may be used in
                                                 16

WO 2014/130860                                                                 PCT/US2014/017779
liquid crystal display systems such as those seen in 2D Laptops, Monitors and TVs. Light
propagates from the edge of a lossy waveguide which may include sparse features; typically
local indentations in the surface of the guide which cause light to be lost regardless of the
propagation direction of the light.
[00123]         As used herein, an optical valve is an optical structure that may be a type of
light guiding structure or device referred to as, for example, a light valve, an optical valve
directional backlight, and a valve directional backlight ("v-DBL"). In the present disclosure,
optical valve is different to a spatial light modulator (even though spatial light modulators
may be sometimes generally referred to as a "light valve" in the art). One example of an
imaging directional backlight is an optical valve that may employ a folded optical system.
Light may propagate substantially without loss in one direction through the optical valve,
may be incident on an imaging reflector, and may counter-propagate such that the light may
be extracted by reflection off tilted light extraction features, and directed to viewing windows
as described in Pat. App. Ser. No. 13/300,293, which is herein incorporated by reference in
its entirety.
[00124]         As used herein, examples of an imaging directional backlight include a
stepped waveguide imaging directional backlight, a folded imaging directional backlight, a
wedge type directional backlight, or an optical valve.
[00125]         Additionally, as used herein, a stepped waveguide imaging directional
backlight may be an optical valve. A stepped waveguide is a waveguide for an imaging
directional backlight including a waveguide for guiding light, further including a first light
guiding surface; and a second light guiding surface, opposite the first light guiding surface,
further including a plurality of light guiding features interspersed with a plurality of
extraction features arranged as steps.
[00126]         Moreover, as used, a folded imaging directional backlight may be at least one
of a wedge type directional backlight, or an optical valve.
[00127]         In operation, light may propagate within an exemplary optical valve in a first
direction from an input side to a reflective side and may be transmitted substantially without
loss.   Light may be reflected at the reflective side and propagates in a second direction
substantially opposite the first direction. As the light propagates in the second direction, the
light may be incident on light extraction features, which are operable to redirect the light
outside the optical valve.     Stated differently, the optical valve generally allows light to
                                                 17

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
propagate in the first direction and may allow light to be extracted while propagating in the
second direction.
 [00128]         The optical valve may achieve time sequential directional illumination of large
display areas. Additionally, optical elements may be employed that are thinner than the back
working distance of the optical elements to direct light from macroscopic illuminators to a
window plane.        Such displays may use an array of light extraction features arranged to
extract light counter propagating in a substantially parallel waveguide.
 [00129]         Thin imaging directional backlight implementations for use with LCDs have
been proposed and demonstrated by 3M, for example U.S. Patent No. 7,528,893; by
Microsoft, for example U.S. Patent No. 7,970,246 which may be referred to herein as a
"wedge type directional backlight;" by RealD, for example U.S. Patent Application No.
 13/300,293 which may be referred to herein as an "optical valve" or "optical valve directional
backlight," all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
[00130]          The present disclosure provides stepped waveguide imaging directional
backlights in which light may reflect back and forth between the internal faces of, for
example, a stepped waveguide which may include a first side and a first set of features. As
the light travels along the length of the stepped waveguide, the light may not substantially
change angle of incidence with respect to the first side and first set of surfaces and so may not
reach the critical angle of the medium at these internal faces.          Light extraction may be
advantageously achieved by a second set of surfaces (the step "risers") that are inclined to the
first set of surfaces (the step "treads"). Note that the second set of surfaces may not be part of
the light guiding operation of the stepped waveguide, but may be arranged to provide light
extraction from the structure. By contrast, a wedge type imaging directional backlight may
allow light to guide within a wedge profiled waveguide having continuous internal surfaces.
The optical valve is thus not a wedge type imaging directional backlight.
[00131]          FIGURE 1A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of light
propagation in one embodiment of a directional display device, and FIGURE 1B is a
schematic diagram illustrating a side view of light propagation in the directional display
device of FIGURE 1A.
[00132]          FIGURE 1A illustrates a front view in the xy plane of a directional backlight
of a directional display device, and includes an illuminator array 15 which may be used to
illuminate a stepped waveguide 1. Illuminator array 15 includes illuminator elements 15a
through illuminator element 15n (where n is an integer greater than one). In one example, the
                                                 18

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
stepped waveguide 1 of FIGURE 1A may be a stepped, display sized waveguide 1.
Illumination elements 15a through 15n are light sources that may be light emitting diodes
(LEDs). Although LEDs are discussed herein as illuminator elements 15a - 15n, other light
sources may be used such as, but not limited to, diode sources, semiconductor sources, laser
sources, local field emission sources, organic emitter arrays, and so forth. Additionally,
FIGURE lB illustrates a side view in the xz plane, and includes illuminator array 15, SLM
(spatial light modulator) 48, extraction features 12, guiding features 10, and stepped
waveguide 1, arranged as shown. The side view provided in FIGURE lB is an alternative
view of the front view shown in FIGURE lA. Accordingly, the illuminator array 15 of
FIGURES lA and lB corresponds to one another and the stepped waveguide 1 of FIGURES
 lA and lB may correspond to one another.
 [00133]         Further, in FIGURE 1B, the stepped waveguide 1 may have an input end 2
that is thin and a reflective end 4 that is thick. Thus the waveguide 1 extends between the
input end 2 that receives input light and the reflective end 4 that reflects the input light back
through the waveguide 1. The length of the input end 2 in a lateral direction across the
waveguide is greater than the height of the input end 2. The illuminator elements 15a - 15n
are disposed at different input positions in a lateral direction across the input end 2.
 [00134]         The waveguide 1 has first and second, opposed guide surfaces extending
between the input end 2 and the reflective end 4 for guiding light forwards and back along the
waveguide 1 by total internal reflection. The first guide surface is planar. The second guide
surface has a plurality of light extraction features 12 facing the reflective end 4 and inclined
to reflect at least some of the light guided back through the waveguide 1 from the reflective
end in directions that break the total internal reflection at the first guide surface and allow
output through the first guide surface, for example, upwards in FIGURE 1B, that is supplied
to the SLM 48.
[00135]          In this example, the light extraction features 12 are reflective facets, although
other reflective features could be used. The light extraction features 12 do not guide light
through the waveguide, whereas the intermediate regions of the second guide surface
intermediate the light extraction features 12 guide light without extracting it. Those regions of
the second guide surface are planar and may extend parallel to the first guide surface, or at a
relatively low inclination. The light extraction features 12 extend laterally to those regions so
that the second guide surface has a stepped shape including of the light extraction features 12
                                                 19

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
and intermediate regions. The light extraction features 12 are oriented to reflect light from the
light sources, after reflection from the reflective end 4, through the first guide surface.
 [001361        The light extraction features 12 are arranged to direct input light from different
input positions in the lateral direction across the input end in different directions relative to
the first guide surface that are dependent on the input position. As the illumination elements
 15a-15n are arranged at different input positions, the light from respective illumination
elements 15a-15n is reflected in those different directions. In this manner, each of the
illumination elements 15a-15n directs light into a respective optical window in output
directions distributed in the lateral direction in dependence on the input positions. The lateral
direction across the input end 2 in which the input positions are distributed corresponds with
regard to the output light to a lateral direction to the normal to the first guide surface. The
lateral directions as defined at the input end 2 and with regard to the output light remain
parallel in this embodiment where the deflections at the reflective end 4 and the first guide
surface are generally orthogonal to the lateral direction.. Under the control of a control
system, the illuminator elements 15a - 15n may be selectively operated to direct light into a
selectable optical window. The optical windows may be used individually or in groups as
viewing windows.
[00137]         The reflective end 4 may have positive optical power in the lateral direction
across the waveguide. In embodiments in which typically the reflective end 4 has positive
optical power, the optical axis may be defined with reference to the shape of the reflective
end 4, for example being a line that passes through the centre of curvature of the reflective
end 4 and coincides with the axis of reflective symmetry of the end 4 about the x-axis. In the
case that the reflecting surface 4 is flat, the optical axis may be similarly defined with respect
to other components having optical power, for example the light extraction features 12 if they
are curved, or the Fresnel lens 62 described below.            The optical axis 238 is typically
coincident with the mechanical axis of the waveguide 1.
[00138]         The SLM 48 extends across the waveguide is transmissive and modulates the
light passing therethrough. Although the SLM 48 may be a liquid crystal display (LCD) but
this is merely by way of example, and other spatial light modulators or displays may be used
including LCOS, DLP devices, and so forth, as this illuminator may work in reflection. In
this example, the SLM 48 is disposed across the first guide surface of the waveguide and
modulates the light output through the first guide surface after reflection from the light
extraction features 12.
                                                 20

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
 [001391        The operation of a directional display device that may provide a one
dimensional array of viewing windows is illustrated in front view in FIGURE 1A, with its
side profile shown in FIGURE 1B.          In operation, in FIGURES 1A and 1B, light may be
emitted from an illuminator array 15, such as an array of illuminator elements 15a through
 15n, located at different positions, y, along the surface of thin end side 2, x=0, of the stepped
waveguide 1. The light may propagate along +x in a first direction, within the stepped
waveguide 1, while at the same time, the light may fan out in the xy plane and upon reaching
the far curved end side 4, may substantially or entirely fill the curved end side 4. While
propagating, the light may spread out to a set of angles in the xz plane up to, but not
exceeding the critical angle of the guide material. The extraction features 12 that link the
guiding features 10 of the bottom side of the stepped waveguide 1 may have a tilt angle
greater than the critical angle and hence may be missed by substantially all light propagating
along +x in the first direction, ensuring the substantially lossless forward propagation.
 [00140]         Continuing the discussion of FIGURES 1A and 1B, the curved end side 4 of
the stepped waveguide 1 may be made reflective, typically by being coated with a reflective
material such as, for example, silver, although other reflective techniques may be employed.
Light may therefore be redirected in a second direction, back down the guide in the direction
of -x and may be substantially collimated in the xy or display plane. The angular spread may
be substantially preserved in the xz plane about the principal propagation direction, which
may allow light to hit the riser edges and reflect out of the guide. In an embodiment with
approximately 45 degree tilted extraction features 12, light may be effectively directed
approximately normal to the xy display plane with the xz angular spread substantially
maintained relative to the propagation direction. This angular spread may be increased when
light exits the stepped waveguide 1 through refraction, but may be decreased somewhat
dependent on the reflective properties of the extraction features 12.
 [00141]        In some embodiments with uncoated extraction features 12, reflection may be
reduced when total internal reflection (TIR) fails, squeezing the xz angular profile and
shifting off normal.     However, in other embodiments having silver coated or metallized
extraction features, the increased angular spread and central normal direction may be
preserved.    Continuing the description of the embodiment with silver coated extraction
features, in the xz plane, light may exit the stepped waveguide 1 approximately collimated
and may be directed off normal in proportion to the y-position of the respective illuminator
element 15a - 15n in illuminator array 15 from the input edge center. Having independent
                                                 21

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
illuminator elements 15a - 15n along the input edge 2 then enables light to exit from the
entire first light directing side 6 and propagate at different external angles, as illustrated in
FIGURE 1A.
 [00142]         Illuminating a spatial light modulator (SLM) 48 such as a fast liquid crystal
display (LCD) panel with such a device may achieve autostereoscopic 3D as shown in top
view or yz-plane viewed from the illuminator array 15 end in FIGURE 2A, front view in
FIGURE 2B and side view in FIGURE 2C. FIGURE 2A is a schematic diagram illustrating
in a top view, propagation of light in a directional display device, FIGURE 2B is a schematic
diagram illustrating in a front view, propagation of light in a directional display device, and
FIGURE 2C is a schematic diagram illustrating in side view propagation of light in a
directional display device. As illustrated in FIGURES 2A, 2B, and 2C, a stepped waveguide
 1 may be located behind a fast (e.g., greater than 100Hz) LCD panel SLM 48 that displays
sequential right and left eye images. In synchronization, specific illuminator elements 15a
through 15n of illuminator array 15 (where n is an integer greater than one) may be
selectively turned on and off, providing illuminating light that enters right and left eyes
substantially independently by virtue of the system's directionality. In the simplest case, sets
of illuminator elements of illuminator array 15 are turned on together, providing a one
dimensional viewing window 26 or an optical pupil with limited width in the horizontal
direction, but extended in the vertical direction, in which both eyes horizontally separated
may view a left eye image, and another viewing window 44 in which a right eye image may
primarily be viewed by both eyes, and a central position in which both the eyes may view
different images. In this way, 3D may be viewed when the head of a viewer is approximately
centrally aligned.    Movement to the side away from the central position may result in the
scene collapsing onto a 2D image.
[00143]          The reflective end 4 may have positive optical power in the lateral direction
across the waveguide. In embodiments in which typically the reflective end 4 has positive
optical power, the optical axis may be defined with reference to the shape of the reflective
end 4, for example being a line that passes through the centre of curvature of the reflective
end 4 and coincides with the axis of reflective symmetry of the end 4 about the x-axis. In the
case that the reflecting surface 4 is flat, the optical axis may be similarly defined with respect
to other components having optical power, for example the light extraction features 12 if they
are curved, or the Fresnel lens 62 described below.            The optical axis 238 is typically
coincident with the mechanical axis of the waveguide 1. The cylindrical reflecting surface at
                                                 22

 WO 2014/130860                                                                  PCT/US2014/017779
end 4 may typically be a spherical profile to optimize performance for on-axis and off-axis
viewing positions. Other profiles may be used.
 [00144]         FIGURE 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating in side view a directional
display device. Further, FIGURE 3 illustrates additional detail of a side view of the operation
of a stepped waveguide 1, which may be a transparent material. The stepped waveguide 1
may include an illuminator input side 2, a reflective side 4, a first light directing side 6 which
may be substantially planar, and a second light directing side 8 which includes guiding
features 10 and light extraction features 12. In operation, light rays 16 from an illuminator
element 15c of an illuminator array 15 (not shown in FIGURE 3), that may be an addressable
array of LEDs for example, may be guided in the stepped waveguide 1 by means of total
internal reflection by the first light directing side 6 and total internal reflection by the guiding
feature 10, to the reflective side 4, which may be a mirrored surface. Although reflective side
4 may be a mirrored surface and may reflect light, it may in some embodiments also be
possible for light to pass through reflective side 4.
[00145]          Continuing the discussion of FIGURE 3, light ray 18 reflected by the
reflective side 4 may be further guided in the stepped waveguide 1 by total internal reflection
at the reflective side 4 and may be reflected by extraction features 12. Light rays 18 that are
incident on extraction features 12 may be substantially deflected away from guiding modes of
the stepped waveguide 1 and may be directed, as shown by ray 20, through the side 6 to an
optical pupil that may form a viewing window 26 of an autostereoscopic display. The width
of the viewing window 26 may be determined by at least the size of the illuminator, output
design distance and optical power in the side 4 and extraction features 12. The height of the
viewing window may be primarily determined by the reflection cone angle of the extraction
features 12 and the illumination cone angle input at the input side 2. Thus each viewing
window 26 represents a range of separate output directions with respect to the surface normal
direction of the spatial light modulator 48 that intersect with a plane at the nominal viewing
distance.
[00146]          FIGURE 4A is a schematic diagram illustrating in front view a directional
display device which may be illuminated by a first illuminator element and including curved
light extraction features. Further, FIGURE 4A shows in front view further guiding of light
rays from illuminator element 15c of illuminator array 15, in the stepped waveguide 1 having
an optical axis 28.     In FIGURE 4A, the directional backlight may include the stepped
waveguide 1 and the light source illuminator array 15. Each of the output rays are directed
                                                  23

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
from the input side 2 towards the same viewing window 26 from the respective illuminator
 15c. The light rays of FIGURE 4A may exit the reflective side 4 of the stepped waveguide 1.
As shown in FIGURE 4A, ray 16 may be directed from the illuminator element 15c towards
the reflective side 4. Ray 18 may then reflect from a light extraction feature 12 and exit the
reflective side 4 towards the viewing window 26. Thus light ray 30 may intersect the ray 20
in the viewing window 26, or may have a different height in the viewing window as shown
by ray 32. Additionally, in various embodiments, sides 22, 24 of the waveguide 1 may be
transparent, mirrored, or blackened surfaces. Continuing the discussion of FIGURE 4A, light
extraction features 12 may be elongate, and the orientation of light extraction features 12 in a
first region 34 of the light directing side 8 (light directing side 8 shown in FIGURE 3, but not
shown in FIGURE 4A) may be different to the orientation of light extraction features 12 in a
second region 36 of the light directing side 8. Similar to other embodiments discussed
herein, for example as illustrated in FIGURE 3, the light extraction features of FIGURE 4A
may alternate with the guiding features 10. As illustrated in FIGURE 4A, the stepped
waveguide 1 may include a reflective surface on reflective side 4. In one embodiment, the
reflective end of the stepped waveguide 1 may have positive optical power in a lateral
direction across the stepped waveguide 1.
 [00147]        In another embodiment, the light extraction features 12 of each directional
backlight may have positive optical power in a lateral direction across the waveguide.
[00148]         In another embodiment, each directional backlight may include light
extraction features 12 which may be facets of the second guide surface. The second guide
surface may have regions alternating with the facets that may be arranged to direct light
through the waveguide without substantially extracting it.
[00149]         FIGURE 4B is a schematic diagram illustrating in front view a directional
display device which may illuminated by a second illuminator element. Further, FIGURE 4B
shows the light rays 40, 42 from a second illuminator element 15h of the illuminator array 15.
The curvature of the reflective surface on the side 4 and the light extraction features 12
cooperatively produce a second viewing window 44 laterally separated from the viewing
window 26 with light rays from the illuminator element 15h.
[00150]         Advantageously, the arrangement illustrated in FIGURE 4B may provide a
real image of the illuminator element 15c at a viewing window 26 in which the real image
may be formed by cooperation of optical power in reflective side 4 and optical power which
may arise from different orientations of elongate light extraction features 12 between regions
                                                  24

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
34 and 36, as shown in FIGURE 4A. The arrangement of FIGURE 4B may achieve improved
aberrations of the imaging of illuminator element 15c to lateral positions in viewing window
26. Improved aberrations may achieve an extended viewing freedom for an autostereoscopic
display while achieving low cross talk levels.
 [00151]        FIGURE 5 is a schematic diagram illustrating in front view an embodiment of
a directional display device having substantially linear light extraction features.     Further,
FIGURE 5 shows a similar arrangement of components to FIGURE 1 (with corresponding
elements being similar), with one of the differences being that the light extraction features 12
are substantially linear and parallel to each other. Advantageously, such an arrangement may
provide substantially uniform illumination across a display surface and may be more
convenient to manufacture than the curved extraction features of FIGURE 4A and FIGURE
4B. The optical axis 321 of the directional waveguide 1 may be the optical axis direction of
the surface at side 4. The optical power of the side 4 is arranged to be across the optical axis
direction, thus rays incident on the side 4 will have an angular deflection that varies
according to the lateral offset 319 of the incident ray from the optical axis 321.
[00152]         FIGURE 6A is a schematic diagram illustrating one embodiment of the
generation of a first viewing window in a time multiplexed imaging directional display
device in a first time slot, FIGURE 6B is a schematic diagram illustrating another
embodiment of the generation of a second viewing window in a time multiplexed imaging
directional backlight apparatus in a second time slot, and FIGURE 6C is a schematic
diagram illustrating another embodiment of the generation of a first and a second viewing
window in a time multiplexed imaging directional display device. Further, FIGURE 6A
shows schematically the generation of viewing window 26 from stepped waveguide 1.
Illuminator element group 31 in illuminator array 15 may provide a light cone 17 directed
towards a viewing window 26. FIGURE 6B shows schematically the generation of viewing
window 44. Illuminator element group 33 in illuminator array 15 may provide a light cone
 19 directed towards viewing window 44.        In cooperation with a time multiplexed display,
windows 26 and 44 may be provided in sequence as shown in FIGURE 6C. If the image on a
spatial light modulator 48 (not shown in FIGURES 6A, 6B, 6C) is adjusted in
correspondence with the light direction output, then an autostereoscopic image may be
achieved for a suitably placed viewer. Similar operation can be achieved with all the imaging
directional backlights described herein. Note that illuminator element groups 31, 33 each
                                                25

 WO 2014/130860                                                           PCT/US2014/017779
include one or more illumination elements from illumination elements 15a to 15n, where n is
an integer greater than one.
 [00153]        FIGURE 7 is a schematic diagram illustrating one embodiment of an observer
tracking autostereoscopic display apparatus including a time multiplexed directional display
device. As shown in FIGURE 7, selectively turning on and off illuminator elements 15a to
 15n along axis 29 provides for directional control of viewing windows. The head 45 position
may be monitored with a camera, motion sensor, motion detector, or any other appropriate
optical, mechanical or electrical means, and the appropriate illuminator elements of
illuminator array 15 may be turned on and off to provide substantially independent images to
each eye irrespective of the head 45 position. The head tracking system (or a second head
tracking system) may provide monitoring of more than one head 45, 47 (head 47 not shown
in FIGURE 7) and may supply the same left and right eye images to each viewers' left and
right eyes providing 3D to all viewers. Again similar operation can be achieved with all the
imaging directional backlights described herein.
[00154]         FIGURE 8 is a schematic diagram illustrating one embodiment of a multi
viewer directional display device as an example including an imaging directional backlight.
As shown in FIGURE 8, at least two 2D images may be directed towards a pair of viewers
45, 47 so that each viewer may watch a different image on the spatial light modulator 48.
The two 2D images of FIGURE 8 may be generated in a similar manner as described with
respect to FIGURE 7 in that the two images may be displayed in sequence and in
synchronization with sources whose light is directed toward the two viewers. One image is
presented on the spatial light modulator 48 in a first phase, and a second image is presented
on the spatial light modulator 48 in a second phase different from the first phase. In
correspondence with the first and second phases, the output illumination is adjusted to
provide first and second viewing windows 26, 44 respectively. An observer with both eyes in
viewing window 26 will perceive a first image while an observer with both eyes in viewing
window 44 will perceive a second image.
[00155]         FIGURE 9 is a schematic diagram illustrating a privacy directional display
device which includes an imaging directional backlight. 2D display systems may also utilize
directional backlighting for security and efficiency purposes in which light may be primarily
directed at the eyes of a first viewer 45 as shown in FIGURE 9. Further, as illustrated in
FIGURE 9, although first viewer 45 may be able to view an image on device 50, light is not
directed towards second viewer 47. Thus second viewer 47 is prevented from viewing an
                                               26

 WO 2014/130860                                                            PCT/US2014/017779
image on device 50. Each of the embodiments of the present disclosure may advantageously
provide autostereoscopic, dual image or privacy display functions.
 [00156]        FIGURE 10 is a schematic diagram illustrating in side view the structure of a
time multiplexed directional display device as an example including an imaging directional
backlight. Further, FIGURE 10 shows in side view an autostereoscopic directional display
device, which may include the stepped waveguide 1 and a Fresnel lens 62 arranged to provide
the viewing window 26 for a substantially collimated output across the stepped waveguide 1
output surface. A vertical diffuser 68 may be arranged to extend the height of the viewing
window 26 further. The light may then be imaged through the spatial light modulator 48.
The illuminator array 15 may include light emitting diodes (LEDs) that may, for example, be
phosphor converted blue LEDs, or may be separate RGB LEDs.                  Alternatively, the
illuminator elements in illuminator array 15 may include a uniform light source and spatial
light modulator arranged to provide separate illumination regions.           Alternatively the
illuminator elements may include laser light source(s). The laser output may be directed onto
a diffuser by means of scanning, for example, using a galvo or MEMS scanner. In one
example, laser light may thus be used to provide the appropriate illuminator elements in
illuminator array 15 to provide a substantially uniform light source with the appropriate
output angle, and further to provide reduction in speckle. Alternatively, the illuminator array
 15 may be an array of laser light emitting elements. Additionally in one example, the diffuser
may be a wavelength converting phosphor, so that illumination may be at a different
wavelength to the visible output light.
[00157]         There will now be described some waveguides, directional backlights and
directional display devices that are based on and incorporate the structures of FIGURES 1 to
 10 above. Except for the modifications and/or additional features which will now be
described, the above description applies equally to the following waveguides, directional
backlights and display devices, but for brevity will not be repeated. The waveguides
described below may be incorporated into a directional backlight or a directional display
device, 2D display device, or 3D display device as described above. Similarly, the directional
backlights described below may be incorporated into a directional display device as described
above.
[00158]         FIGURE 11 is a schematic diagram illustrating a directional display apparatus
comprising a display device 100 and a control system. The arrangement and operation of the
                                               27

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
control system will now be described and may be applied, with changes as appropriate, to
each of the display devices disclosed herein.
 [00159]         The directional display device 100 comprises a directional backlight that
comprises waveguide 1 and an array of illuminator elements 15 arranged as described above.
The control system is arranged to selectively operate the illumination elements 15a-15n to
direct light into selectable viewing windows.
[00160]          The waveguide 1 is arranged as described above. The reflective end 4
converges the reflected light. A Fresnel lens 62 may be arranged to cooperate with reflective
end 4 to achieve viewing windows 26 at a viewing plane 106 observed by an observer 99. A
transmissive spatial light modulator (SLM) 48 may be arranged to receive the light from the
directional backlight. Further a diffuser 68 may be provided to substantially remove Moire
beating between the waveguide 1 and pixels of the SLM 48 as well as the Fresnel lens 62.
[00161]          As illustrated in FIGURE 11, a directional backlight may include a stepped
waveguide 1 and a light source illuminator array 15.         As illustrated in FIGURE 11, the
stepped waveguide 1 includes a light directing side 8, a reflective side 4, guiding features 10
and light extraction features 12.
[00162]          The control system may comprise a sensor system arranged to detect the
position of the observer 99 relative to the display device 100. The sensor system comprises a
position sensor 70, such as a camera, and a head position measurement system 72 that may
for example comprise a computer vision image processing system. The control system may
further comprise an illumination controller 74 and an image controller 76 that are both
supplied with the detected position of the observer supplied from the head position
measurement system 72.
[00163]          The illumination controller 74 selectively operates the illuminator elements 15
to direct light to into the viewing windows 26 in cooperation with waveguide 1. The
illumination controller 74 selects the illuminator elements 15 to be operated in dependence on
the position of the observer detected by the head position measurement system 72, so that the
viewing windows 26 into which light is directed are in positions corresponding to the left and
right eyes of the observer 99. In this manner, the lateral output directionality of the
waveguide 1 corresponds with the observer position.
[00164]          The image controller 76 controls the SLM 48 to display images. To provide an
autostereoscopic display, the image controller 76 and the illumination controller 74 may
operate as follows. The image controller 76 controls the SLM 48 to display temporally
                                                28

 WO 2014/130860                                                                 PCT/US2014/017779
multiplexed left and right eye images. The illumination controller 74 operate the light sources
 15 to direct light into viewing windows in positions corresponding to the left and right eyes
of an observer synchronously with the display of left and right eye images. In this manner, an
autostereoscopic effect is achieved using a time division multiplexing technique.
 [00165]         The above descriptions may apply to each or all of the following apparatuses,
modifications and/or additional features, individually, or any combination thereof, which will
now be described.
[00166]          In another embodiment, a directional display apparatus may further include a
control system which may be arranged to selectively operate the light sources to direct light
into viewing windows corresponding to output directions as previously discussed.                  This
embodiment may also be used in conjunction with any of the directional backlights,
directional display devices, directional display apparatuses, and so forth as described herein.
[00167]          In another    embodiment, a directional display apparatus              may be an
autostereoscopic display apparatus with a control system. The control system may be further
arranged to control the directional display device to temporally display multiplexed left and
right images and to substantially synchronously direct the displayed images into viewing
windows in positions corresponding to at least the left and right eyes of an observer. The
control system may include a sensor system which may be arranged to detect the position of
an observer across the display device, and also may be arranged to direct the displayed
images into viewing windows in positions corresponding to at least the left and right eyes of
an observer. The position of the viewing windows may primarily depend on the detected
position of the observer.
[00168]          FIGURE 12 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a directional
display device with a rear reflector 300.       The directional display device may include a
directional backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator. The rear reflector 300 may
include an array of reflective facets 3 10. The array is a linear array in that it repeats in a linear
direction (e.g. vertically in Fig. 12). Light rays 304 that are reflected from light extraction
features 12 of the waveguide 1 are directed to a vertical viewing position in the viewing
window 26, with an angular distribution in the X direction. Light rays that are reflected from
light extraction 306 that are transmitted through the features 12 are lost to the system, or may
interact with materials behind the display and scatter to produce undesirable cross talk
between respective viewing windows.
                                                29

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
 [001691        In the present disclosure an optical window refers to the image of a single light
source in the window plane. By way of comparison, a viewing window 26 is a region in the
window plane 106 in which light is provided and which may include image data of
substantially the same image from across the display area. Thus a viewing window may be
formed from multiple optical windows. Typically the optical windows have a small lateral
extent (y-axis direction) and a large extent in a vertical direction orthogonal to the lateral
extent (x-axis direction).
[00170]         In the present embodiment, light rays 306 that are transmitted through the
features 12 are incident on the reflective facets of rear reflector 300. The light rays 306 are
thus redirected towards the viewing window 26. For a given light source of the array 15, the
lateral extent and position of the respective optical windows for rays 304, 306 is substantially
the same; however the distribution of light in the vertical direction may be different for light
ray bundles directed by reflection or transmission at features 12.
[00171]         A directional backlight may thus include a waveguide and an array of light
sources disposed at different input positions in a lateral direction across the input end of the
waveguide. The waveguide may have an input end, may include first and second opposed
guide surfaces for guiding light along the waveguide, and a reflective end facing the input
end for reflecting the input light back through the waveguide. The first guide surface may be
arranged to guide light by total internal reflection and the second guide surface may have a
stepped shape which may include a plurality of facets oriented to reflect light from the light
sources, after reflection from the reflective end, through the first guide surface into optical
windows in output directions. The output directions may be distributed in a lateral direction
to the normal to the first guide surface in dependence on the input positions, and intermediate
regions between the facets that are arranged to direct light through the waveguide without
extracting it. The directional backlight may also include a rear reflector which may include a
linear array of reflective facets arranged to reflect light from the light sources that is
transmitted through the plurality of facets of the waveguide, back through the waveguide to
exit through the first guide surface into the optical windows.
[00172]         A directional display device may thus also include a directional backlight and
a transmissive spatial light modulator arranged to receive the output light from the first guide
surface. A display apparatus may thus also include a directional display device, and a control
system arranged to selectively operate the light sources to direct light into viewing windows
corresponding to the output directions. The display apparatus may be an autostereoscopic
                                                30

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
display apparatus in which the control system is further arranged to control the display device
to display temporally multiplexed left and right images and synchronously to direct the
displayed images into viewing windows in positions corresponding to left and right eyes of
an observer. The control system may further include a sensor system arranged to detect the
position of an observer across the display device. The control system may be arranged to
direct the displayed images into viewing windows in positions corresponding to left and right
eyes of an observer, in dependence on the detected position of the observer.
 [00173]         Advantageously, the optical windows and viewing windows 26 achieved by
the rays 304, 306 may substantially overlap in the lateral direction. Thus the cross talk of the
display may be substantially maintained. Further the total intensity of light rays directed to
viewing window 26 may be increased and the display brightness may be increased. The
battery lifetime of a mobile display device may be increased, and the cost and number of light
sources may be reduced for a desired brightness level. Further cross talk from unwanted
transmitted light through features 12 is reduced or eliminated. Further, the reflector 300 may
be formed in a thin film that may be mounted in the case of a display system, thus
minimizing cost and thickness.         Alternatively the structure of the reflector 300 may be
formed on a rear case of the backlight, for example by molding the structure of the reflector
300 as part of the display case and then coating with a metallization layer. Advantageously
this may provide a stiff and flat structure, achieving high window quality for the viewing
windows 26 that are reflected from the reflector 300.
[00174]          FIGURE 13 is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a directional
display device including a waveguide 1 with linear light extraction features 12 and a rear
reflector 300 including an array of linear reflective facets 310. The array is a linear array in
that it repeats in a linear direction, for example vertically in Fig. 13. The directional display
device may include a directional backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator. The
features 12 may be arranged substantially parallel to the orientation of the reflective facets
310, advantageously achieving viewing windows that are substantially aligned with the same
orientation for respective rays 304, 306.
[00175]          The facets of the waveguide 12 and the reflective facets 310 of the rear
reflector 300 may be inclined in the same sense in a common plane orthogonal to the lateral
direction. In this example, the reflective facets 310 are linear, that is they extend linearly
across the rear reflector 300, for example horizontally in Fig. 13. The reflective end 4 may
have positive optical power in a lateral direction across the waveguide 1. Thus light from
                                                  31

 WO 2014/130860                                                                 PCT/US2014/017779
light source array 15 may have a divergence that is reduced to achieve filling of the area of
the spatial light modulator 48 by light from the waveguide 1. The positive optical power may
be arranged to substantially collimate light within the waveguide 1 and a Fresnel lens 62 with
optical power in the same direction as the positive optical power of the reflective end 4 may
be arranged to form viewing windows in the window plane. Asymmetric diffuser 68 with a
major diffusion axis direction 69 may be arranged to achieve high diffusion in the direction
orthogonal (x axis) to the lateral direction in which the optical windows and viewing
windows are arranged (y axis). Advantageously the viewing window 26 can be diffused in
the orthogonal direction while achieving low cross talk in the lateral direction.
 [001761        FIGURE 14 is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a directional
display device including a waveguide 1 with curved light extraction features 12 and a rear
reflector 300 including an array of linear reflective facets 3 10. The directional display device
may include a directional backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator. The curved
features 12 may be arranged to achieve viewing windows 26 at the window plane 106
without a Fresnel lens and may have a substantially uniform first radius of curvature in the x
y plane. Advantageously the thickness of the system and light losses due to additional
surfaces can be reduced. Further the reflector 300 can be cut from a large continuous sheet of
material compared to an arrangement wherein the reflective facets 3 10 are curved as will be
described below, thus reducing cost.
[00177]         FIGURE 15A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a directional
display device including a waveguide 1 with curved light extraction features 12 with a first
radius in the x-y plane and a rear reflector 300 including an array of curved reflective facets
310. The array is a linear array in that it repeats in a linear direction, for example vertically in
Fig. 15A. In this example, the reflective facets 310 extend across the rear reflector 300, for
example horizontally in Fig. 15A, but are curved, not linear. In particular, the reflective facets
310 have a second radius in the x-y plane that may be approximately twice the first radius,
arranged to direct light rays 306 of FIGURE 12 to the same viewing window as light rays 304
without a Fresnel lens 62. The directional display device may include a directional backlight
and a transmissive spatial light modulator. The reflective facets 310 may be arranged to
cooperate with the curved light extraction features 12 so that the lateral direction of reflection
of light rays 306 from reflective facets 3 10 is substantially the same as the lateral direction of
reflection of light rays 304 from features 12.         In this manner, the optical windows 26
                                                 32

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
produced by rays 304, 306 may be substantially overlapped. Advantageously the cross talk
may be reduced while the display brightness may be increased.
 [00178]         FIGURE 15B is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of a directional
display device including the waveguide 1 and rear reflector 300 of FIGURE 15A, with the
components shown as overlapping. The directional display device may include a directional
backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator. In region 303, the high point of the
reflector 300 is contacted to the light extraction feature 12 of the waveguide 1. The area of
the contact will be small and so light leakage due to loss of total internal reflection in the
region 303 is minimized. Thus, the reflector 300 may be arranged in contact with the
waveguide 1. Advantageously, the thickness of the structure may be reduced and uniform
flatness of the reflector 300 achieved by structural support of the waveguide 1.
 [00179]         It may be desirable to reduce Moire beating may occur between the rear
reflector 300, extraction features, 12 and pixels of the spatial light modulator 48.
[00180]          In the above described examples, the rear reflectors comprise a regular array
of reflective facets 3 10 with a constant pitch. In contrast, FIGURE 15C is a schematic
diagram illustrating a front view of a rear reflector 300 comprising a randomized, irregular
array of reflective facets 310 that have an irregular, randomized pitch. The facets 310 may be
arranged to disrupt the appearance of Moire beating in the display device. Regions 313
between the facets 310 may be arranged to be directly reflective, transmissive or absorbing.
[00181]          FIGURE 16 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a directional
display device including a waveguide 1. The directional display device may include a
directional backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator. Light source 202 which may
be an LED for example may be arranged to produce a substantially Lambertian optical output
in air, shown by polar intensity profile 204 so that on-axis ray 206 has a greater intensity than
ray 208 inclined at an angle p 210 to the normal direction. After passing through the input
side 2 of the waveguide 1, the polar intensity profile 212 for rays 214 in the waveguide 1 is
modified from polar intensity profile 204 due to refraction at the input side 2. Thus the
maximum angular extent p 210 is set to be the critical angle 0, of the material of the
waveguide of the waveguide 1. Light rays 214 propagate along the waveguide 1 by total
internal reflection and after reflection at the side 4 of the waveguide 1 (not shown), light ray
bundle 216 returns towards the light extraction features 12.
 [00182]         In an illustrative example, for a tilt angle a 238 from the horizontal of the light
extraction filter of 450, horizontally (parallel to x-axis) propagating ray 218 in the waveguide
                                                  33

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
 1 is redirected in a vertical direction (parallel to z-axis) and through the side 6 of the
waveguide 1 to an asymmetric diffuser 68. Diffuser 68 may include an optical function that
may be arranged to redirect a parallel beam with a polar intensity profile 217 with a tilt angle
6 227 and cone angle y 225. Cone angle y 225 may for example be the half angle of rays 219
with half intensity of the peak rays 213 of diffuser 68 in the z-x plane. In a further illustrative
example, tilt angle 6 227 may be set to be 150 and cone angle y 225 may be set to be 10'.
Similarly ray 220 is redirected and diffused in the x-z plane producing half intensity ray 221
directions as shown.
[00183]         Further, some rays 226 may be transmitted by light extraction feature 12 so
that they are incident on a surface 229 (such as the back case of the display) whereon they
scatter to form rays 231. Such rays 231 may be scattered in a manner that they fall outside
the desired viewing windows for the light source 202 and can create unwanted image cross
talk. Further rays 224 may be partially reflected at the side 10 and redirected towards surface
229 where they may further scatter light. Refracted rays 237 may have high angle within the
display and cause unwanted off-axis illumination and may scatter with edges of the display
increasing cross talk and reducing display uniformity. Further such rays may be absorbed at
surface 229, reducing display brightness
[00184]         It may be desirable to reduce image cross talk and increase display brightness
by means of rear reflector 300 including an array of reflective facets 3 10 as will be described
in further detail below.
[00185]         The luminous intensity of a display device is a measure of the power emitted
by the display device in a particular direction per unit solid angle. The brightness of the
display device 100 as perceived by the observer 99 is elicited by the luminance which is a
photometric measure of the luminous intensity per unit area of light traveling in a given
direction. The illuminator elements of the array 15 provide respective luminous flux.
[00186]         FIGURE 17 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle outside and within a waveguide 1. Thus for light source 202 with a
Lambertian intensity profile, intensity 211 may be plotted against angle (p 210 providing
intensity curve 230 for the light cone in air and curve 232 for the refracted light cone within
the optical valve.
[00187]         FIGURE 18 is a schematic diagram illustrating a further side view of a
directional display device including a waveguide 1. The directional display device may
include a directional backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator. Thus in the z-y
                                                34

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
plane, light ray 218 is redirected by feature 12 to be parallel to the z-axis. At the asymmetric
diffuser in this axis, the diffusion angle E 227 for half intensity rays 223 in polar intensity
profile 215 means that the spread of light in the y-axis is limited. For the present purposes
the y-axis is termed the lateral direction and relates to the direction of the array of light
sources 202 in the array 15. Thus the lateral direction is the direction in which the array of
optical windows is arranged.
 [00188]         FIGURES 19A-19C are schematic diagrams illustrating front and side views
of an asymmetric diffuser. The asymmetric diffuser 68 may include for example a surface
relief diffuser that includes surface features with asymmetric structures 259 as shown in front
view FIGURE 19A. FIGURE 19B shows a side view in the y-z plane so that small diffusion
angle E 235 is achieved in the lateral (y axis) direction. FIGURE 19C shows a side view in
the x-z plane wherein surface relief structures 259 in layer 263 may further include an array
of prismatic structures with a nominal tilt angle < 257 to achieve a diffusion cone tilt 6 227
and diffusion cone angle y 233 in the vertical (x axis) direction. The diffusion angle y 233
may for example be the full width half maximum of the light cone from a collimated input.
For applications such as autostereoscopic display angles E 235 may be relatively low, for
example 1 to 3 degrees to achieve low cross talk. However angle E 235 may be larger in
displays that are used for 2D applications such as low power modes, high brightness modes
and privacy modes, for example 3 degrees to 20 degrees or more to advantageously achieve
uniform output and a desirable drop off in luminance with viewing angle for wide angle use.
 [00189]         The diffuser 68 may for example include, but is not limited to, a UV cured
layer 263 formed on a substrate 261 that may be a glass or polymer substrate such as PET or
PMMA. Alternatively the surface relief may be formed within a single material by molding.
The structures may be mastered by means of diamond tooling, laser writing into
photopolymer or other known mastering techniques.            Alternatively the diffuser 68 may
include a volume diffuser such as a photopolymer material recorded through an asymmetric
photomask.
 [00190]         A directional backlight may further include an asymmetric diffuser 68
disposed to receive light output through the first guide surface 6, the asymmetric diffuser 68
may be arranged to provide greater angular dispersion in a direction orthogonal to said lateral
direction than in said lateral direction.
 [00191]         FIGURE 20 is a schematic diagram illustrating a further side view of a
waveguide 1 with silvered light extraction features 12.        By way of comparison with the
                                                35

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
present embodiments, it may be considered that light output can be increased by coating the
light extraction features with a reflective material 240. Thus in addition to light rays 218, 254
that may be achieved by total internal reflection alone, light rays 250, 252 may be directed
towards the observer, achieving a substantially Lambertian output in air in the x-z plane.
 [00192]         FIGURE 21 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle outside and within the waveguide 1 of FIGURE 20. Intensity
curve 242 has a lower maximum than curve 232 due to the reflection losses at the feature 12.
In an illustrative example a silver coating may have a reflectivity of less than 92% compared
to substantially 100% for totally internally reflected light rays. Further, the process to apply
the material 240 to the features 12 alone can be complex and expensive.                It may be
considered that both the features 12 and 10 are coated, reducing cost and complexity.
However, the absorption of material 240 when applied to the features 10 may result in
substantial losses for guided light within the waveguide of the waveguide 1.
[00193]          FIGURE 22 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle for light exiting the waveguide 1 of FIGURE 16 by means of
reflection from light extraction features prior to an asymmetric diffuser 68 for tilt angles a
238 of 450 in curve 270, 350 in curve 272, and 550 in curve 274.     Thus the width and angular
cut-off point of the rays that undergo total internal reflection at feature 12 can be varied. It
may typically be desirable to increase the brightness of the peak intensity and to place the
peak intensity on axis at 0' or close to 00, for example at 100 above the normal to the spatial
light modulator 48 for a laterally on-axis optical window.
[00194]          FIGURE 23 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
against propagation angle for light exiting the waveguide 1 of FIGURE 16 by means of
reflection from light extraction features after an asymmetric diffuser with varying optical
properties as indicated, assuming a 450 light extraction feature angle. Thus, the peaks may be
blurred to achieve increased uniformity of display illumination.
[00195]          FIGURE 24A is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of ray
propagation paths in a waveguide 1 by means of transmission through and reflection from
light extraction features12. Thus light rays 218 in cones 280, 281 are reflected, light rays 224
in cones 282, 283 are transmitted by feature 12 and partially reflected from feature 10 and
light rays 226 in cones 284, 285, 286 are directly transmitted by the feature 12.
[00196]          FIGURE 24B is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous
intensity against propagation angle for light exiting the waveguide 1 of FIGURE 24A by
                                                36

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
means of transmission through light extraction features. Thus translated to output angles in
air, the intensity curve 292 for the ray bundle in cone 283 and intensity curve 294 for the ray
bundle in cone 285 can be calculated from analysis of Fresnel reflection coefficients in s and
p polarization states.    For the present illustrative example it is assumed that the light is
unpolarized within the valve, the angle a 238 is 450 and the refractive index of the waveguide
 1 is 1.5.  The total intensity in the two light cones is given by curve 296.
[00197]          FIGURE 25A is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of ray
propagation paths in a waveguide 1 by means of transmission through light extraction
features 12 and interacting with reflective facets 310.         Rays 226 may be incident on a
reflective facet 310 arranged with an angle f 305 to direct light back through the waveguide
 1, achieving light rays 239 that are directed towards the SLM 48 of the display system.
Advantageously light rays 226 that are directed through the facets 12 rather than reflected
may be directed towards the viewing windows 26 of the display system, increasing brightness
and efficiency.
[00198]          FIGURE 25B is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of ray
propagation paths in a waveguide 1 by means of transmission through light extraction
features 12 and further interacting with light guiding features 10 and reflecting facets 310.
Such light rays are reflected to exit as rays 241 from the waveguide.       Advantageously light
rays 224 that are directed through the facets 12 rather than reflected may be directed towards
the viewing windows 26 of the display system, increasing brightness and efficiency.
[00199]          FIGURE 25C is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of ray
propagation paths in a waveguide 1 by means of transmission through light extraction
features 12 and light reflecting facets 3 10, further comprising a layer 243 arranged between
the waveguide and reflecting features.        The further layer 243 may comprise for example a
waveplate, diffuser, deflector or combination therein. Light rays 224 have relatively high
angles of incidence at the input to the layer 243 and thus additional light rays 237 are
produced. In general it is thus preferable that no additional layer 243 is introduced between
the waveguide 1 and reflecting facet 310.
[00200]          FIGURE 26 is a schematic diagram illustrating a detail of a side view of a
waveguide 1 including a rear reflector including an array of reflective facets. Thus reflector
300 may include a saw-tooth structure with reflective facets 310 and drafts or intermediate
facets 312. The tilt angle f 305 from the vertical of the facet 310 may be determined as will
be described below. Thus light rays 226 transmitted through the feature 12 (otherwise termed
                                                  37

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
herein facet 12) are directed back through the waveguide 1.                  The light rays 226
advantageously increase the brightness of the viewing windows while maintaining the
directionality of the viewing windows, reducing image cross talk.
 [00201]         The reflector may be formed from an embossed film. The reflector 300 may
for example include, but is not limited to, a UV cured layer 309 formed on a substrate 311
that may be a glass, a polymer substrate such as PET or PMMA or may be the case of a
display apparatus.      Desirably the flatness of the reflector 300 is arranged to maintain
alignment of viewing windows 26 formed by rays 306 from the reflector film to be in
alignment with the viewing windows 26 that are formed by rays 304 that arise by total
internal reflection at the features 12. Alternatively the surface relief may be formed within a
single material by molding. The structures may be mastered by means of diamond tooling,
laser writing into photopolymer or other known mastering techniques. Alternatively the
diffuser 68 may be a volume diffuser such as a photopolymer material recorded through an
asymmetric photomask. A reflective material 315 may be applied by known coating methods
to the reflective facets 310 of the reflector or may be applied to the reflective facets 310 and
intermediate facets 312. Reflective material 315 may comprise aluminium, silver, chrome,
silicon oxides or other known materials used in substrate coating to achieve desirable
reflectivity, low scatter, low cost and ruggedness.
[00202]          As illustrated by ray 325, a small proportion of the light from the facet 310
will be incident on the feature 12 of the waveguide 1. The amount of light that is incident on
the features 12 is small, in an illustrative example the features 12 may have a width 0.0 1mm
on a pitch of 0.5mm, so that approximately 2% of the light from facet 310 will be incident on
the feature 12. However, the light rays 325 may be directed to substantially the same viewing
window 26 as the light rays 226, so these light rays may not significantly degrade optical
performance.
[002031          FIGURE 27 is a schematic diagram illustrating a detail of a side view of a
waveguide 1 including a rear reflector including an array of reflective facets.            In this
embodiment the intermediate facets 312 may be arranged with a tilt angle          K 307 from the
vertical that is arranged so that transmitted light from the features 12 is arranged not to reflect
from the intermediate facets 312 by shielding provided by the reflective facets 310.
[00204]          The rear reflector may be spaced from the waveguide 1 such that the light
from an individual facet of the waveguide 1 is incident on plural reflective facets 310 of the
rear reflector 300, the rear reflector 300 may further include intermediate facets 312
                                                 38

 WO 2014/130860                                                             PCT/US2014/017779
extending between the reflective facets of the rear reflector, the intermediate facets being
inclined in an opposite sense from the reflective facets of the rear reflector at an angle such
that said light from the light sources that is transmitted through the plurality of facets of the
waveguide is not incident on the intermediate facets.
 [00205]         Advantageously the arrangement of FIGURE 27 may be more conveniently
manufactured with uniform reflectivity and is less susceptible to incorrect fitting during the
display assembly process.
[00206]          FIGURE 28A is a schematic diagram illustrating a detail of a side view of a
waveguide 1 including a rear reflector including an array of reflective facets 3 10. The facets
are aligned with the features 12 of the waveguide 1 and planar regions 314 which may be
coated or uncoated are arranged between the facets 310 and intermediate facets 312.
[00207]          The facets 310 of the rear reflector 300 may thus be disposed behind
respective ones of the facets 12 of the waveguide 1 and arranged to reflect most to all of the
light incident thereon from the light sources that is transmitted through the respective one of
the facets 12 of the waveguide 1. Advantageously Moire patterning between the extraction
features 12 of the waveguide 1 of the optical valve may be minimized in comparison to the
embodiments of FIGUREs 26 and 27. Note that some of the light transmitted through the
facets is directed back through the regions 10 and towards off-axis viewing positions without
incidence onto the rear reflector as will be described with reference to FIGURE 32B.
[00208]          As illustrated in FIGURE 28A, the rear reflector 300 includes an intermediate
facet 312, a planar region 314, and a reflective facet 310.       In another example, the rear
reflector 300 may be configured to include a planar region 314 and a reflective facet 310 and
eliminate the intermediate facet 312. In this example, the reflective facet 310 may maintain
approximately the same slope and the slope of the planar region 314 may become a steeper,
positive slope to enable the planar region 314 to join to the reflective facet 310. Further, the
planar region 314 may slope in a generally upwardly direction and may connect with the top
end of the reflective facet 3 10. Continuing this example, the facets of the rear reflector 300
may still be approximately aligned with the features 12 of the waveguide 1.
[00209]          FIGURE 28B is a detailed schematic diagram illustrating of a side view of a
waveguide 1 which includes a rear reflector including an array of reflective facets 310. The
facets are angles equivalently but are advantageously randomly spaced or spaced with
repeating structures to minimize Moire interference with the optionally periodic extraction
features 12 of the waveguide 1 and SLM 48.
                                                 39

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
 [00210]         FIGURE 28C is a further schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a
waveguide 1 and rear reflector 300, wherein the waveguide comprises light guiding features
227 that are not parallel with the guiding surface 6 of the waveguide and may be used in
combination with a rear reflector including an array of reflective facets 310. The deflection
angle achieved by the facets 10 may be modified to compensate for the non-parallel guiding
surfaces of the waveguide 1. Advantageously the thickness of the waveguide 1 may be
reduced and thus the thickness of the optical stack may be minimized.
[00211]          Light rays 251 that are propagating between the input end 2 and the reflective
end 4 and that are extracted by the taper of the waveguide 1 may be substantially directed
parallel to the side 6 and may thus be absorbed within the device or may be output at high
angles and such rays may not be seen by an observer.
[00212]          Some light rays 253 that are extracted may be incident on the rear reflector
and directed towards the observer, achieving unwanted illumination of optical windows for
light propagating within the waveguide from the light source array 15 to the reflective end 4.
It may be desirable to eliminate this light.
[00213]          FIGURE 28D is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a waveguide
 1 and rear reflector 300 comprising reflective facets 310 and non-reflective facets 312. Thus
light rays 253 may be directed through the rear reflector 300 whereas rays 251 are directed to
optical windows.       Directional coating techniques may be arranged to provide different
reflectivities for facets 310, 312. Advantageously stray light visibility for rays 253 is reduced
or eliminated.
[00214]          FIGURE 28E is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a waveguide
 1 and rear reflector 300. The light extraction features 12 may have inclination angles a 380,
382 and reflector facet angles 0 384, 386 that vary in the x-axis direction orthogonal to the
lateral direction. Such an arrangement may achieve direction of output light rays 388, 390
that vary across the display width and so provide some pupillation in this direction, achieving
some focussing of light into the viewing windows in the x-direction.        Further, the reflective
facets of the rear reflector have an inclination that varies across the array of reflective facets.
Peak light intensity may thus be directed toward the optical window 260 at the window plane
 106 from different positions along the light path propagating within the waveguide 1. In use
light source array may be located to one side of the directional backlight so that light can be
directed with either a downward or upward bias toward the top or bottom of the display
respectively. Advantageously display brightness and uniformity may be increased.
                                                40

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
 [002151        It may be desirable to increase the reflectivity of the rear reflector 300
compared to that shown in FIGURE 26 for example, while reducing cost. High reflectivity
planar reflectors may be formed by stretching sandwiches of materials with different
birefringence properties, such as uniaxial polymeric materials.        The refractive index steps
between the respective layers may achieve transmission for one electric vector orientation
and reflection for the orthogonal vector. By aligning such reflectors orthogonally, a high
reflectivity reflector may be achieved, with reflectivity greater than that for metallized
structures, for example greater than 95% reflectivity.
[002161         FIGURES 28F-281 are schematic diagrams illustrating side views of methods
to form a rear reflector.      Reflector sheet 569 crossed reflective layers 571, 572 may be
heated and embossed under pressure by stamping tool 570 to achieve surface relief reflectors
571, 572 as shown in FIGUREs 28F-G. To ensure that the structure is formed in both
reflectors, a matching stamping tool 584 may be provided on the reverse side of the layer.
Alternatively, the first and second reflectors 571, 572 may be separately formed and arranged
as a stack of rear reflectors as shown in FIGURE 281. Advantageously the reflectivity of the
rear reflector can be increased compared to metallized structures as shown in FIGURE 26 for
example.
 [00217]        FIGURES 28J-K are schematic diagrams illustrating front views of rear
reflectors. The rear reflector 300 is formed by at least two polarized reflector sheets 576, 578
arranged to reflect light that is polarized in respective polarization directions 580, 582 that are
orthogonal to each other, the polarized reflector sheets being shaped to form said linear array
of reflective facets. The orientation of curved reflective facets 310 may be substantially
parallel to one of the polarization directions 580 as shown in FIGURE 28J or may be at 45
degrees as shown in FIGURE 28K. The orientation of the top reflector 572 may be arranged
to align to advantageously achieve maximum reflectivity for the preferred incident
polarization state.
[00218]         FIGURE 29 is a schematic diagram illustrating a detail of a further side view
of a waveguide 1 including a rear reflector including an array of reflective facets. A cross
section in the y-z plane is illustrated. Thus, transmitted light ray 321 from the waveguide 1 of
the waveguide 1 is directed towards a reflective facet 3 10 of the reflector 300. The reflected
light is transmitted through the waveguide 1 so that it is parallel to the ray 218 that was
directed by total internal reflection at the facet 12 of the waveguide 1. In this manner, light
                                                 41

 WO 2014/130860                                                                  PCT/US2014/017779
rays 321 will be directed to the same optical window as the rays 218, and thus cross talk will
be minimized while brightness will be increased.
 [00219]         FIGURE 30 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
211 against propagation angle 320 from a directional backlight apparatus including a
waveguide 1 with a rear reflector including an array of reflective facets before an asymmetric
diffuser.     Curve 296 from FIGURE 24B is deflected in a direction around the normal to the
spatial light modulator 48 and is added to the TIR light curve 270 from FIGURE 23, to
achieve the total intensity distribution 324 in air prior to the asymmetric diffuser 68.     It can
be observed that the peak intensity may be more than twice the peak intensity from the TIR
curve 270 alone. Such a desired increase in brightness can be achieved when the curve 296 is
arranged to overlap the curve 270.
[00220]          For rays 304 the limit of such a condition may arise when guiding rays
propagating within the waveguide 1, with a material of refractive index n and critical angle
  c, are incident at the critical angle on the feature 12 which has a tilt angle to the normal to
the first guide surface 6 of (7/2 - a). Such rays 304 have an output angle X1 in air of
                  X1 = sin-1 ( n. sin ( a - 0c))                          eqn. 1
 [00221]         The reflective facets 310 of the rear reflector may be inclined at an angle v to
the normal to the first guide surface, so that for rays 306 that are propagating substantially
parallel to the first guide surface and then reflected by the facets 310, the output angle    X2 in
air is given by
                  X2 =   /2 - 20                                          eqn. 2
 [00222]         Thus the angle 0 305 may be arranged according to the following condition so
that light rays 304 and 306 achieve an angular overlap in the viewing window 26, achieving
increased brightness.
                 20 > /2 - sin-1 ( n. sin ( a - 0c))                      eqn. 3
 [00223]         Thus the facets 12 of the waveguide 1 may be inclined at an angle (u/2-a) to
the normal to the first guide surface 6 and the reflective facets 3 10 of the rear reflector 300
may be inclined at an angle 0 305 to the normal to the first guide surface 6, and 23 > in/2
sin-1 ( n . sin ( a - 0c)), 0, being the critical angle of the facets of the waveguide and n being
the refractive index of the material of the waveguide. In arrangements wherein there is a tilt
between the first guide surface 6 and light guiding features 10, the expression of eqn.3 may
be varied accordingly.
                                                   42

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
 [00224]        In an illustrative example, the refractive index of the waveguide 1 may be 1.5,
the critical angle may thus be 41.80, the facet angle a may be 450 so that the angle 0 305 of
the facet 310 may be set to be 42.6' or greater to achieve an increased brightness gain without
a substantial gap between the angular intensity profiles of the ray fans represented by rays
304, 306 in FIGURE 12.
[00225]         FIGURE 31 is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous intensity
211 against propagation angle 320 from a directional backlight apparatus which may include
a waveguide 1 with a rear reflector. The rear reflector may include an array of reflective
facets after an asymmetric diffuser. As described previously the asymmetric diffuser 68 blurs
the output peaks reducing non-uniformities of illumination across the display and as the
observer moves in a direction orthogonal to the lateral direction with respect to the display.
[00226]         FIGURE 32A is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous
intensity 211 against propagation angle 320 from a directional backlight apparatus which may
include a waveguide 1 with a rear reflector. The rear reflector may include an array of
reflective facets after an asymmetric diffuser. Various arrangements 330, 332, 334, 336, 338,
340 of facet 12 tilt angle a 238, reflective facet 310 tilt angle 0 305 and asymmetric diffuser
properties including angles y 233 and 6 227 are illustrated. Advantageously, the central
luminance can be substantially increased with wide intensity distribution over acceptable
viewing angles.
[00227]         FIGURE 32B is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous
intensity 211 against propagation angle 320 from a directional backlight apparatus with a
waveguide with a rear reflector with an array of reflective facets for arrangements 344, 346,
348 of angles a 238 and 0 305. The graphs are shown over a wider angle than for FIGURE
32A and comprise the luminous intensity from light rays 237 and 241 as shown in FIGURE
25B for example. Thus an off-axis illumination peak 349 may be observed for high off-axis
viewing positions.
[00228]         FIGURE 32C is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous
intensity 211 against propagation angle 320 from a directional backlight apparatus with a
waveguide 1 with a rear reflector with an array of reflective facets 310 after an asymmetric
diffuser 68. Arrangement 354 may provide a luminous intensity distribution that is similar in
profile to a profile 352 that has a gain of approximately 2 in comparison to a Lambertian
distribution 350. Further increasing the diffusion angle y 233 to 15for example can further
increase the similarity of the peak shape. The peak luminous intensity may be substantially
                                                43

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
maximised for on-axis viewing; such an arrangement is particularly advantageous for mobile
display devices wherein the device is required to be rotated between landscape and portrait
modes of operation. Arrangement 356 is shown for an additional layer 243 as shown in
FIGURE 25C for example, indicating losses associated with increased reflection of light rays
237 at the layer 243.
 [00229]         FIGURE 32D is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of the use of the
optical output of the present directional backlight embodiments in a display 100 arranged on
a table surface 366 and viewed in a landscape arrangement when the array 15 is arranged
along the long edge of the waveguide 1. The peak 349 will provide a luminance that varies
with 1/cos x where the angle X 320 is the viewing angle of the display. At high viewing
angles 364, for example greater than 450, the display luminance to observer 362 may
substantially increase because of the small resolved display area and advantageously the
display may be used to achieve a high luminance image for low power consumption at such
high angles.
 [00230]         FIGURE 32E is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a rear
reflector wherein the facets of the rear reflector are arranged to image light from respective
aligned light extraction features of an optical valve comprising waveguide 1 with extraction
facets 12. The reflective facets 710 of the rear reflector 700 are concave, and arranged in
alignment with the facets 12 of the waveguide 1. Light rays 714 from a light extraction facet
 12 are incident on curved reflector 710 of rear reflector 700. Draft regions 712 are provided
to connect concave reflectors 710.      In operation reflectors 710 are arranged with a focus
substantially at the extraction feature 12 of the waveguide 1. Light from the feature 12 is thus
substantially collimated and passed through the waveguide 1. The pitch 716 of the extraction
features is set as substantially the same as the pitch 718 of the reflectors 710.
[00231]          FIGURE 32F is a schematic diagram illustrating a graph of luminous
intensity against propagation angle from a directional backlight apparatus comprising the
arrangement of FIGURE 32E. Thus luminous intensity profile 720 has a sharper peak than
that achieved by the arrangement of FIGURE 27for example.
[00232]          In the present embodiments, concave describes a curvature of the reflective
facets 710 in the x-z plane as shown in FIGURE 32E whereas curved describes a curvature of
the reflective facets 310 in the x-y plane as shown for example in FIGURE 15A. Facets of
the rear reflector may be concave and curved to advantageously achieve viewing windows
with very high gain characteristics in both x and y axes. Further diffuser layers may be
                                                 44

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
arranged to tune the desired output characteristics.     The reflection from the rear reflector
facets 710 can be arranged to overlap the direct reflection from the facets 12 of the
waveguide 1. Such an arrangement can advantageously achieve a very high luminance
display with low power consumption.        The orientation angle a 238 may be arranged with a
high value so that most of the light incident on the facet 12 is transmitted to the rear reflector
facet 710.
 [002331         The angle between the facets 710, 712 can be set as substantially 900 to
achieve polarization recirculation as described elsewhere in the present embodiments.
[00234]          FIGURE 33A is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a directional
display device which may include a waveguide 1 with a rear reflector. The directional
display device may include a directional backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator.
The rear reflector may include an array of reflective facets, a Fresnel lens and an asymmetric
diffuser. The Fresnel lens 62 may be arranged with optical power in the x-z plane. In this
manner, while the angular intensity of the light may vary as shown for example in FIGURE
32, the Fresnel lens 62 may achieve pupillation of the light directed to the viewing window
26 in the window plane 106. Thus for an observer's eye at position 354, advantageously a
substantially uniform intensity may be seen across the height of the spatial light modulator
48.
[00235]          A directional backlight may thus further include a Fresnel lens 62 having
optical power in at least the lateral direction, disposed between the first guide surface of the
waveguide and the asymmetric diffuser and further may include a Fresnel lens having optical
power at least in the lateral direction disposed to receive light output through the first guide
surface. Further the Fresnel lens may have optical power in the direction orthogonal to the
lateral direction.
[002361          To optimise brightness, viewing freedom and cross talk, it may be desirable to
achieve overlapping windows 26 in a single viewing plane 106 for light reflected both from
the light extraction features 12 and reflecting facets 3 10.     Further it may be desirable to
reduce device thickness and complexity by using curved light extraction features 12.            A
method to calculate the radius of curvature of the reflective facets 3 10 for a given radius of
curvature of light extraction features 12 will now be described.
[00237]          FIGURE 33B is a schematic diagram illustrating the optional paths of a
guiding incident ray 1500 having an in-plane (in the x-y plane) angle 1550. Depending on its
out-of-plane angle 1552, the ray may either reflect off the extraction feature 12 and exit out
                                                45

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
of the guide toward a viewer as ray 1510, or transmit through the feature 12 and reflect off a
reflection facet 310 and exit as ray 1520. Ray tracing can relate the deflection angles 1560
and 1570 to in-plane orientations 1580 of the extraction feature 12 and 1590 of the reflector
facet 310.
 [00238]        FIGURE 33C is a schematic diagram of a graph showing an example of the
exiting angles 1560 and 1570 of rays along axis 1620 as a function of reflector in-plane
orientation angles 1580 and 1590 along axis 1630. Trace 1610 is that of a -x propagating ray
(angle 1550 equal to zero in FIGURE 33B) reflecting off the extraction feature, where trace
 1600 is that of similarly incident ray reflecting off a reflector facet. The approximately 10%
difference in gradients between these two traces may determine the difference in orientations
required to provide the same exiting angle or focal point for the two ray paths. This indicates
the facet radius of a curved reflection film may be approximately 10% shorter than the radius
of curvature of an optical valve's curved extraction features for matching focal points.
Alternatively, the radii of the reflector facet and light extraction features may be substantially
the same. Alternatively the radii may be different so that viewing windows are created in
different window planes and of different sizes. Advantageously the display uniformity and
longitudinal viewing freedom may be increased. Further Moire may be reduced between the
two structures, and the structure of the pixels of the SLM 48.
[00239]         In an illustrative example, a display of size 75x50mm may be illuminated by
an optical valve comprising waveguide 1 and rear reflector 300. The window plane 106
distance may be set to be 300mm. For a refractive index of 1.5 of the waveguide, the radius
of curvature of the light extraction features 12 may be approximately 450mm. The radii may
be fixed so that the pitch of the features 12 in the radial direction may vary slightly with
lateral position, although may remain constant in the x-direction orthogonal to the lateral
direction.    The radius of the reflective facets 310 of the rear reflector 300 may be
approximately 400mm.
[00240]         In a further illustrative example, the pitch of structures may be set differently
to minimize Moire beating between the various structures. The pitch of the rear reflector
facets may for example be 40 micrometres, the pitch of the features of the features 12 of the
waveguide 1 may be 200 micrometres and pitch of the features of the diffuser may be of
order 10 micrometres or less and the pitch of the pixels of the spatial light modulator may be
25 x 75 micrometres.        A spacing of 250 micrometres may be introduced between the
waveguide 1 and reflector 300. Moire may be substantially eliminated.
                                                 46

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
 [00241]        FIGURE 33D is a schematic diagram illustrating the ray path of a ray 1650
emanating from a single nominal viewing point 1600, incident on either an extraction feature
 12 or reflector facet 310 at position 1612, guiding within the optical valve 1 as ray 1660,
reflecting off the curved end 4 before propagating as ray 1670 towards a position 1630 along
the entrance aperture of the side 2.
[00242]         FIGURE 33E is a schematic diagram illustrating the two optional paths from
similar incident rays 1650 and 1651. Tracing these rays through the system enables system
optimization. Localization of the positions 1630 in FIGURE 33D for rays emanating from
the same position 1600 is desirable.
[00243]         FIGURE 33F is a schematic diagram illustrating a resulting graph showing
the traced ray position 1710 in millimeters (mm) along the entrance aperture at side 2 for
different entrance positions 1712 in mm along a horizontal line bisecting the optical valve. In
this graph, the viewing position 1600 is normal and centered on the valve at a viewing
distance of 400mm. The two traces shown in the graph are for the two ray path options
depicted in FIGURE 33E (1750 for rays reflecting off the extraction feature; trace 1760 for
rays reflecting off the reflector facets). The radii of the curved reflecting features and that of
the imaging surface 4 were adjusted for best localization along the entrance aperture of side
2. This result is consistent with the reflector facet radius of curvature being 10% smaller than
the radius of curvature of the valve's extraction features. Optimizing for different off-axis
viewing positions and viewing distances suggest the relative radii values of extraction
features and reflective facets for best performance to fall within 0-12% of each other with the
reflection film having the smaller radius.
[00244]         In other words, the distance from the waveguide and reflector 300 to the
window plane 106 may be substantially the same for light reflected directly from the features
 12 and for light directed through the features 12 and reflected from the reflective facet 310
and back through the waveguide 1. Advantageously the viewing windows may be
substantially aligned achieving increased brightness and viewing freedom while reducing
image cross talk.
[00245]         Transmissive spatial light modulators 48 such as liquid crystal displays
typically require polarized input light of a given first polarization. To optimise brightness
and efficiency it may be desirable to utilize both light of the first polarization and light of a
second polarization that is orthogonal to the first polarization state in the present
embodiments comprising light reflection facets 3 10, as will now be described.
                                                47

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
 [00246]         FIGURE 34 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of an embodiment
of a directional display device with polarization recovery. The directional display device
may include a directional backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator. The
directional display device includes waveguide 1, and illuminator array 15, as well as an SLM
48 which receives the output light from the waveguide 1, being arranged as described above.
The display device may further comprise the following components in series between the
waveguide 1 and an SLM 48: Fresnel lens 62, optional phase retarder such as a half wave
retarder 404, asymmetric diffuser 68, reflective polarizer 402, and clean up polarizer 406 at
the input to the spatial light modulator 48. A prismatic reflective film 300 is disposed behind
the second guide surface of the SLM 48 and functions as a rear reflector.
[00247]          In operation, due to the reflective polarizer 402 that is arranged between the
first guide surface of the waveguide 1 and the SLM 48 being arranged to transmit the first
polarization component, unpolarized light rays 408 propagating in waveguide 1 are directed
as light rays 410 to viewing window 26 as described above, with a first polarization that is
transmitted through reflective polarizer 402 and clean up polarizer 406. Light rays 410 of the
second polarization component having a polarization orthogonal to the first polarization are
reflected by the reflective polarizer 402 as rejected light and are transmitted through the
waveguide 1 to prismatic reflective film 300 whereon they are reflected and directed as light
rays 412 back to the SLM 48. The vertical position of the light ray 412 at window 26 may
thus be different to the position of light ray 410. However, such light rays may include the
same optical window directionality in a lateral (y-axis) direction.
[00248]          The prismatic reflective film 300 converts the polarization of the rejected light
into the first polarization as will be described below.
[00249]          The reflective coating 315 arranged on the prismatic surface of the reflector
300 may be arranged to be partially transmitting, for example by controlling its thickness so
that light rays 454 with low intensity are directed to the rear of the display structure. A mask
450 may be arranged with aperture 452 configured to direct light to the rear of the display for
product branding purposes for example.
[00250]          FIGURE 35A is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a detail of a
directional display device with polarization recovery of FIGURE 34. The directional display
device may include a directional backlight and a transmissive spatial light modulator.
FIGURE 35B illustrates a side view of an arrangement of reflector 300, waveguide 1 and
diffuser 68 in an illustrative example. FIGURE 35C is a schematic diagram illustrating a
                                                 48

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
schematic front view of the polarization recovery embodiment of FIGURE 34. For
clarification purposes Fresnel lens 62 and diffuser 68 are not shown in FIGURES 35A-C.
 [00251]        Light rays 408 propagating in the waveguide of waveguide                linclude
unpolarized light state 430.       Light rays reflected by total internal reflection from light
extraction feature 12 are substantially unpolarized and incident on reflective polarizer 402 as
described above.
[00252]         Light rays 410 transmitted through reflective polarizer 402 are directed
through an optional retarder 404 which may be a half wave retarder with appropriately
oriented optical axis direction 437 arranged to direct the first polarization component 436 on
to the transmission axis of clean up input polarizer 406 of spatial light modulator 48.
Desirably the polarization transmission axes of the polarizer 402 and polarizer 406 are
substantially parallel to minimize the visibility of off-axis retardation variations in the
retarder 404 that may be a stack of retarders.
[00253]         Diffuser 68 may be inserted into the stack with vertical (x-axis) diffusion
angle y 223 and horizontal (y-axis) diffusion angle E 235, further providing deflection 6 227
in the vertical (x axis) direction as required. Diffuser 68 may be positioned between the
waveguide 1 and SLM 48 input polarizer 406. Desirably the diffuser does not substantially
change ray paths before the reflective polarizer 402 and so is positioned between the
reflective polarizer and clean up polarizer. Further diffuser may be incorporated between the
waveguide 1 and reflective facets 310; however losses associated with high angles of
incidence and shown in FIGURE 32C for example may be present.
[00254]         Spatial light modulator 48 may further include substrates 420, 424 such as
glass substrates, liquid crystal layer 422 and output polarizer 426.
[00255]         Light rays 412 reflected by reflective polarizer 402 as rejected light are
transmitted through waveguide 1 and incident on the prismatic reflective film 300. The
prismatic reflective film 300 may comprise a linear array of pairs of reflective corner facets
310, 312. The corner facets 310, 312 are inclined in opposite senses in a common plane so
that the individual light rays 412 undergo a reflection from a pair of the corner facets 310,
312. That common plane in which the corner facets 310, 312 are inclined is oriented around
the normal to SLM 48 so that the rear reflector converts the polarization of the rejected light
supplied back to spatial light modulator into the first polarization on reflection from a pair of
corner facets. This may be achieved by the common plane extending at 450 to the polarization
of the second polarization component at the reflector 200.
                                                49

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
 [00256]        Thus as shown in FIGURE 20, light rays 412 are reflected by both facets 310,
312 of the prismatic reflective film 300. Light rays 434 are incident with a polarization state
434 at an angle of 450 with respect to the elongate prismatic facets 310, 312 of the prismatic
reflective film 300, as illustrated in FIGURE 35C. After the reflections at facets 310, 312, a
polarization state rotation for ray 412 is achieved so that polarization state 434 is rotated to
polarization state 436 due to the respective phase changes on reflection at each inclined facet
310, 312.     Thus light ray 412 outputted through the spatial light modulator 48 has the
polarization state 436 that is substantially the same as the polarization state 432 of rays 412.
[00257]         In an illustrative example, angle a 238 of waveguide 1 features 12 may be set
to 45' angle 0 305 may be set to 600, angle      K 307 may be set to 30' so that the apex angle
405 shown in FIGURE 35B is set to 90' and the facets 310, 312 are arranged to achieve a
retro-reflection of light rays 412 in the x-z plane, achieving a polarization reflection of state
434 to state 436 in reflection. If the apex angle 405 is set to a different angle than 90', the
incident polarization state 434 angle may be adjusted in comparison to the extent of the facets
312, 310 in the y direction to optimise polarization recirculation, although complete rotation
of polarization state 434 may not be achieved. As shown by curve 332 in FIGURE 32, the
diffuser angle y 225 and 6 227 may be set to 150 and -15' respectively, which may increase
brightness by adding rays 411 to rays 410 by a factor of two. Further rays 411, 412 may
undergo polarization recirculation so that the brightness of the display may be further
increased by a factor of up to two. Thus the total display brightness may be increased by a
factor of up to four compared to that achieved by rays 410.
[00258]         FIGURE 35D is a schematic diagram illustrating the front view of a
symmetric diffuser that may alternatively be used in the arrangement of FIGURE 35C. Such
a symmetric diffuser may be used in arrangements wherein the amount of diffusion desirable
in the y-axis is similar to the amount of diffusion desirable in the x-axis. In an illustrative
example, a 12 degree full width half maximum diffusion angle in the y-axis may be arranged
with a high brightness 2D display or a low power consumption 2D display to achieve viewing
window (that may be composed of multiple optical windows) that have a nominal width at
the window plane 106 of 300mm of 60mm. A similar diffusion angle may be desirable in the
x-axis to achieve a variation of luminous intensity that is similar to the profile 352 shown in
FIGURE 32C.
[00259]         FIGURE 35E is a schematic diagram illustrating a perspective view of an
optical stack-up comprising an optical valve comprising waveguide 1, a rear reflector 300, an
                                                 50

 WO 2014/130860                                                             PCT/US2014/017779
optical control layer 504 and a spatial light modulator 48. Reflective end 4 of waveguide 1
may comprise a Fresnel mirror and a taper region 500 may be introduced to the waveguide 1
to achieve increased light coupling from light emitting element array 15 into the waveguide
 1. Shading layer 502 with aperture region 503 may be arranged to hide the edges of the
backlight to a display observer. Optical control layer 504 may comprise reflective polarizer,
retarder and diffuser layers as described elsewhere in the present embodiments. Spatial light
modulator 48 may comprise input polarizer 406, TFT glass substrate 420, liquid crystal layer
422, colour filter glass substrate 424 and output polarizer 426. Red pixels 516, green pixels
518 and blue pixels 520 may be arranged within the liquid crystal layer.
 [00260]        FIGURES 35F-35I are schematic diagrams illustrating side views of an
optical stack-up comprising an optical control layers 504 and a spatial light modulator 48.
FIGURE 35F illustrates optical control layer 504 may comprise reflective polarizer 402, half
wave retarder 404 and diffuser 68. Polarizers 406, 426 may each comprise a polarization
absorption layer 532 such as iodine and stretched PVA, further comprising encapsulant layers
530, 534. FIGURE 35G illustrates a further embodiment wherein the optical control layer
504 is attached to the input polarizer 406, for example by means of a pressure sensitive
adhesive layer (not shown). The diffuser 68 may be formed on the input side of the layer
504. Advantageously the optical losses are reduced compared to the arrangement of FIGURE
35F, increasing display efficiency.
[00261]         It may be desirable to further reduce the number of layers.      FIGURE 35H
shows that the input encapsulant layer 536 of the input polarizer 406 may comprise a further
retarder function to achieve polarization rotation as described for example in FIGURES 38A
B. The layer 534 may comprise TAC (Cellulose triacetate) whereas the layer 536 may for
example comprise TAC-R, further comprising a half wave retardation function. Thus the
spatial light modulator input polarizer may comprise an encapsulant layer that is an optical
retarder.
[00262]         It is further desirable that the diffuser 68 is provided between the reflective
polarizer 402 and spatial light modulator 48 to increase the efficiency of polarization
recirculation.   Such an arrangement can be achieved as shown in FIGURE 351 wherein
diffusing adhesive layer 538 is incorporated at a position between the reflective layer 402 and
the pixel plane 422. The diffusing adhesive layer may incorporate be provided by differential
regions of high and low refractive index for example, minimizing depolarization effects
within the adhesive layer 538 while achieving              desirable diffusion characteristics.
                                                51

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
Advantageously the cost and complexity of the optical control layer and spatial light
modulator combination can be reduced while the optical efficiency can be increased.
 [00263]        FIGURES 36A-B are schematic diagrams illustrating further side views of
polarization recovery arrangements similar to that shown in FIGURE 35A,                   further
comprising diffuser layers 68.        Diffuser 68 may have a low birefringence and may be
arranged with retarder 404, and as shown in FIGURE 36A may be formed on the surface of
retarder 404. Light rays 403 that are reflected by the reflective polarizer 402 may be incident
on regions of the rear reflector and redirected into the waveguide 1 by means of the features
 12. Light rays 401 that are within the entrance aperture of the rear reflector corner reflectors
(comprising facets 310, 312) is retroreflected and directed into cone 407 by diffuser 68.
[00264]         In FIGURE 36B, diffuser 68 is arranged between the waveguide 1 and
reflective polarizer 402, and may be formed on the reflective polarizer 402. Thus diffusion of
light rays 409 may change the proportion of rays 403 that are directed back into the
waveguide. Advantageously polarization recirculation properties may be varied.
[00265]         FIGURES 37A-37B are schematic diagrams illustrating a side view of a
polarization recovery arrangement using aligned rear reflectors. Further FIGURE 37B uses a
waveguide similar to that shown in FIGURE 28C and a rear reflector similar to that shown in
FIGURE 28A. Advantageously light rays 417 may substantially be reflected by the planar
reflective regions 314. Additional quarter wave plate 398 may be arranged to rotate the
polarization state of the reflected light rays 417 so that they are transmitted through the
reflective polarizer 402. Advantageously the display luminous intensity can be increased for
certain viewing angles.
[00266]         FIGURE 37C is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of an optical
valve comprising waveguide 1 further comprising a light scattering feature and a rear
reflector 300. In operation, light propagating from input end 2 comprising aligned the light
emitting element array 15 to the reflective end 4 may encounter scattering loss, for example
due to mode coupling losses or scattering features 540 that may be scratches or tooling
marks. Thus light rays 542 may exit the waveguide 1 and are incident on the rear reflector
300, particularly the draft facet 312.
 [00267]        FIGURE 37D is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of the
appearance of an optical valve comprising a light scattering feature 540 and rear reflector
300. In operation, light source of array 15 will produce the appearance of a band region 546
within a dark region 544 of light that appears to propagate from the array 15 to the reflective
                                                52

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
end 4 of the waveguide 1, depending on the density and form of the features 540. It may be
desirable to reduce the visibility of the region 546.
 [00268]        FIGURE 37E is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of an optical
valve comprising waveguide 1; a light scattering feature 540 and a rear reflector further
comprising a light scattering facet surface 312 that may be a rough reflective surface. The
facet 310 may be typically be a specular reflective surface although may be slightly rough.
The roughness may be provided in at least the y-z plane and may also be in the x-z plane as
shown in FIGURE 37E. Thus rays 543 that are incident on the facet 312 are scattered to a
broader cone than that of FIGURE 37C.
 [00269]        FIGURE 37F is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of the
appearance of an optical valve comprising a light scattering feature and a rear reflector 310
further comprising a light scattering facet 312 surface. Thus the region 548 may have a
triangular form with lower peak luminance compared to the region 546 of FIGURE 37D.
Such appearance may be substantially hidden by diffuser 68.
 [00270]        FIGURE 37G is a schematic diagram illustrating a perspective view of a light
extraction feature of an optical valve comprising an undulating structure. Such an undulating
structure can be applied to linear light extraction facets 12 to reduce the appearance of Moire
between the light extraction facets 12 and pixels of the SLM 48. The undulation may be
provided for example during diamond tooling of the surface form by controlling diamond
height and lateral position during a cutting step.
 [00271]        FIGURE 37H-I are schematic diagrams illustrating perspective views of rear
reflectors comprising an undulating structure comprising an undulating locus 560 of the
peaks of the facets 310 for specular and rough reflecting facets 312 respectively. Further
Moire may be present between the facets 12 and facets 310, 312. Undulation can be arranged
to reduce the appearance of Moire.
 [00272]        As used herein, the adjective "linear" as applied to an array of facets or
features means that the array is a linear array, or that the facets in the array repeat in a linear
direction. In contrast, the adjective "linear" as applied to facets or features means that the
facets or features themselves are linear. However, in general the facets or features in a linear
array may be linear or another shape such as curved. Similarly, the facets or features may be
flat or have an uneven shape, for example being undulating along their length or being rough.
[00273]         FIGURE 38A is a schematic diagram illustrating a further schematic front
view of the polarization recovery embodiment of FIGURE 34 further comprising curved
                                                 53

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
extraction features 12 and curved reflection facets 310 to provide focusing without the
requirement of an additional Fresnel lens, in a similar manner to that described in FIGURE
 15A for example. The varying orientation of the reflector film facets rotates the incident
linear polarization state 434 to one of varying polarization orientations such as 436 and 437
dependent on location in the lateral direction (y-axis). To continue the illustrative example,
the radius of curvature of the extraction features 12 in the x-y plane may be approximately
440mm while the radius of curvature of the reflective facets 3 10 of the rear reflector 300 in
the x-y plane may be . Advantageously polarization recirculation is achieved in a thin
structure, achieving increased brightness and efficiency, and low power consumption.
 [00274]        FIGURE 38B is a schematic diagram illustrating a modified ray path of that
shown in FIGURE 33D whereby the ray 1650 emanating from a single viewing point 1600
(representing the position of a viewer 99 eye) reflects from the reflector film at region 1610
before creating the counter propagating ray 1680.       This is reflected back from reflecting
polarizer 402 prior to hitting either an extraction feature 12 or reflector facet 310 at
substantially the same position 1610; then guiding within the waveguide 1 as ray 1660,
reflecting off the curved end surface 4 and finally propagating as ray 1670 towards a position
 1630 along the entrance aperture of side 2. It can thus be shown that the rays from point
 1600 can be directed to substantially the same position in the entrance aperture of the side 2,
and thus the same light source of the array 15a-n. In this manner the facets 310 may be
arranged to produce polarization converted light in the same direction as the light that was
transmitted through the reflective polarizer at first incidence. Advantageously the viewing
windows of the display may have increased brightness and low cross talk.
[00275]         FIGURE 39 illustrates in more detail the double reflection of an incident ray
 1650 off the surfaces 310 and 312 of the prismatic reflector film creating the counter
propagating ray 1680. Thus the facets 310, 312 may be arranged with an included angle 1681
of 900 that provides a retroreflection for light rays 1650 resolved in a first plane parallel to
the surface normals of surfaces 310, 312, but a mirror reflection in the orthogonal plane.
[002761         FIGURE 40 illustrates a graph showing a traced ray position (in millimetres)
along the entrance aperture of side 2 (axis 1710) for different entrance positions in mm along
a horizontal line bisecting the optical valve (axis 1712). The viewing position 1600 in this
exemplary case is 65mm off-axis in both vertical and horizontal dimensions at a viewing
distance to plane 106 (as shown in FIGURE 12) of 400mm from the normal from the centre
of the waveguide 1. The four traces shown in the graph are for the two ray path options
                                               54

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
depicted in FIGURE 33E (1750, 1770 being off the extraction feature and trace 1760, 1780
being off the reflector facets) combined with either the recirculation ray path option (1770,
 1780) or not (1750, 1760). The radii of the curved reflecting features and that of the imaging
surface 4 may be adjusted for optimised localization for on-axis viewing. The result suggests
that recirculated light emanates at source positions close to those of non-recirculated light
preserving the mapping between source and viewer positions necessary for accurate
illumination control.
 [00277]        It may be desirable to achieve a display that is capable of viewing in bright
lighting conditions, for example 25,000 lux or can operate with high efficiency for a desirable
luminance, for example 500 nits. The directional backlights of the present embodiment can
efficiently direct light into a narrow range of angles in comparison to conventional 2D
backlight systems and thus may achieve high brightness for a given power consumption, or
high efficiency for a given luminance.
[00278]         FIGURE 41 is a schematic diagram illustrating the front view of a backlight
arrangement that produces a horizontal viewing window 800 with a portrait oriented optical
valve waveguide 1 illuminated with a vertical LED array15 for use in a high brightness or
high efficiency display apparatus. Note that the coordinate axes are referenced to the
waveguide orientation rather than the observer space, thus horizontal viewing window 800 is
provided for an observer 99 with left eye position 804 and right eye position 806.
[00279]         Reflective end 4 may comprise a Fresnel mirror arranged to substantially
collimate light from sources of the array 15 from reflecting facets 813.     In cooperation with
extraction features 12 and optional light reflecting facets 310 (not shown) form viewing
window 800. Advantageously a Fresnel mirror may achieve a small bezel in comparison with
the domed surface 4 shown in FIGURE 35C for example. The draft facets 803 of the Fresnel
mirror may provide scatter in the optical system. Scatter in such a high brightness or high
efficiency 2D display may achieve desirable levels of uniformity of viewing windows
without the constraints of low image cross talk that are desirable in autostereoscopic displays.
Further diffusion properties maybe incorporated in the draft facets 803 to minimize non
uniformity effects of the light reflected from the facets 803.
[00280]         Input diffuser 801 may be an asymmetric diffuser with diffusion in the x-y
plane and arranged to reduce the visibility of the gaps between the LEDs of the array 15
without substantially increasing loss of light coupling into the waveguide in the x-z plane.
                                                55

 WO 2014/130860                                                             PCT/US2014/017779
The input diffuser 801 may be arranged with diffusion properties that are different in the
region of groups 812 than in the region of groups 810 for example.
 [00281]         Light emitting element array 15 such as an LED array may comprise a first
group 808 of LEDs that may have high brightness output capability; second groups 810 of
LEDs that have similar pitch 816 to the pitch 814 LEDs of the group 808 and third groups
812 of LEDs that may have a pitch 818 that may be greater than the pitch 814 of the LEDs of
the group 808.     Further groups may be incorporated or there may be a gradual increase of
pitch from the centre of the array 15 to the outer regions for example. The LEDs of the group
808 may have higher brightness output but lower efficiency than the LEDs of the groups 810,
812.
[00282]          In operation in a high brightness mode of operation, LEDs 809 of the first
group 808 may be directed by means of the optical valve arrangement to the viewing window
800 comprising two optical windows and size 802. Thus an observer 99 with eyes located at
positions 804, 806 may see an image across the area of the SLM 48 (not shown).          As the
observer 99 eyes move, the optical windows may be adjusted so that the viewing windows
move in correspondence to observer position, thus increasing viewing freedom.
[00283]          In an illustrative example a display of diagonal may be illuminated by LEDs
in the first group 808 of size 2.6xlmm on a pitch of 3.5mm. The output of the LEDs may be
50 lumens at 600mW, thus a total power of 1.2W may be arranged to provide window 800.
An optical valve of height 50mm suitable for mobile phone applications may be arranged to
provide viewing windows at 300mm viewing distance, with window height 802 of
approximately 60mm. In cooperation with polarization recirculation and faceted reflection
film 300, the on-axis output luminance of the display may be approximately at least 2000nits
when used in cooperation with an LCD of transmission of 6.5% to unpolarized light. The
reflections from the front of the display may for example be 5%. At screen illuminance of
25,000lux a contrast ratio of 5:1 may be achieved in comparison to a contrast ratio of 1.3:1
for a display of luminance 500nits. Thus advantageously the contrast ratio of the display may
be substantially enhanced in high brightness environments.
[00284]          For operation at 500nits display luminance, a power consumption of 300mW
may be achieved. Advantageously, the brightness of the display is substantially higher than
can be achieved for the same input power in a conventional backlight, for example a display
comprising ESRTM, BEF IITM and DBEFTM from 3M Corporation and diffusers.
                                                56

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
 [002851        Continuing the illustrative example herein, the LEDs of the group 808 may
have a luminous efficiency of 60lumens per Watt (lm/W), whereas the luminous efficiency of
the LEDs of the groups 810, 812 may be 80 lm/W at a peak drive luminous flux of 20
lumens. The pitch 818 may be 5mm or greater. Input diffuser 801 may vary in its diffusion
properties along the entrance aperture to accommodate the different LED spacing.
Advantageously the cost and number of the LEDs in the groups 810, 812 may be reduced.
[00286]         In a further illustrative example, a display of height 50mm may be provided
with a light emitting element array 15 with an array package luminous emittance of 7 lumens
per millimetre. A display output luminance of 1500nits for on-axis viewing positions may be
achieved with a display of transmission approximately 5%.               In operation in outdoors
environments of 25,000lux with typical background white level reflectivity of 50%, the
adapted eye white level is approximately 4000 nits.            The relative display luminance
compared to the adapted eye white level is 37% and close to the reflectivity of known high
reflectivity monochrome electrophoretic displays.       This compares to less than 15% for a
standard display.     Thus the readability of the image of the present embodiments is
substantially higher in high ambient illumination environments. Further full colour moving
images are achieved for outdoors operation.
[00287]         FIGURE 42A illustrates a similar illumination system to that of FIGURE 41
arranged in landscape orientation with respect to observer 99, achieving vertical viewing
window 800 comprising four optical windows when illuminated by LEDs of group 811.              To
continue the illustrative example, the viewing window width may be increased to
approximately 120mm, comprising four optical windows. Further FIGURE 42 illustrates
LED drive circuits 830, 832, 834 and controller 74 may be arranged to individually drive the
LEDs of group 808 with a high current demand and LEDs of group 810 with a lower current
demand. Further the LEDs of group 812 may be driven by driver 834 as a string, to reduce
the cost of the driver 834 in comparison to the drivers 830, 832.      In this manner, angles near
the axis of the display can be arranged to provide operation in high brightness environments
whereas the angles more off -axis can be arranged to provide observer tracked low power
mode operation and LED strings 812 can be driven when the display is required to operate in
wide angle mode, that is a directional distribution that is similar to a standard 2D display.
[00288]         FIGURES 42B-D are schematic diagram illustrating graphs of light emitting
element luminous flux 263 with position 261 across an array of light emitting element arrays.
FIGURE 42B shows the arrangement of FIGURE 41wherein group 808 of LEDs are
                                               57

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
illuminated each with luminous flux 900 with an array grey scale locus profile 902. The
output luminous intensity function may be related to the luminous flux distribution by
propagation of light within the waveguide 1, and at the reflector film 300 and diffuser 68
arrangements. Such a luminous flux distribution may be arranged for example to achieve a
high brightness display for viewing of images with desirable contrast ratio in environments
with high illuminance, such as 25,000 lux.        In lower illuminance environments, such as
indoors, the luminous flux distribution 908 may be arranged as shown in FIGURE 42C. Thus
the display efficiency may be further increased while achieving a desirable luminance for
indoors viewing.
 [00289]        Further it may be desirable to increase the viewing freedom of the display. As
shown in FIGURE 42A, the luminous flux distribution 910 may be provided. LED regions
904, 912, 914 may be provided by LED groups 811, 810, 812 respectively in FIGURE 42A.
Advantageously, a wide viewing angle display may be provided with a luminous intensity
distribution similar to that of a conventional 2D backlight, for example profile 352 in
FIGURE 32C. Such an arrangement does not require further control of window position or
structure for wide angle viewing.
[00290]         Advantageously a display can be arranged that may achieve a high contrast in
environments with high illuminance levels. Further the display can achieve very low levels
of power consumption in indoor environments for acceptable contrast ratios. Further, the
display can achieve angular luminous intensity distributions that are similar to conventional
2D backlights for similar power operation. Further such a display can operate in landscape
and portrait modes of operation. Further the peak luminance can be arranged for optimum
viewing of the display in substantially the direction of the display surface normal, and is thus
suitable for displays arranged to operate in both landscape and portrait modes of operation.
[00291]         FIGURE 43A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of an optical
valve arranged with a reflector at the input side and FIGURE 43B a schematic diagram
illustrating a side view of an optical valve arranged with a reflector at the input side 2
arranged    to redirect returning light into a wide viewing cone and an integrated Fresnel
mirror. Reflector 842 may comprise a metallic reflector or a polymeric reflector, for example
ESRTM, and may further be arranged with a diffuser 843 that may be an asymmetric diffuser
arranged to diffuse light so that rays 841 incident on reflector 842 are diffused in the x-y
plane but not in the x-z plane, providing diffuse rays 839 as well as direct reflected rays 837.
In operation some of the light from an LED that is not extracted at features 12 is incident on
                                                58

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
the input side 2 and reflected. This light then recirculates in the system and thus achieves a
source that is substantially the width of the optical valve.    The ratio of the input aperture
height 845 to mirror aperture height 847 may be adjusted to achieve increased light falling on
the input aperture, therefore increasing the amount of light that may be directed across a wide
range of angles, and increasing the background illumination levels.          The array 15 may
comprise a single group 844 of high brightness LEDs, thus advantageously reducing display
cost.     Such a display may be tracked to achieve moving viewing windows or may be
untracked with a high brightness central peak.
 [00292]        FIGURES 43C-43D are schematic diagrams illustrating further front views of
an optical valve arranged with a reflector at the input side to redirect returning light into a
wide viewing cone and an integrated Fresnel mirror. FIGURE 43E is a schematic diagram
illustrating a graph of a luminous intensity distribution from the arrangement of FIGURE
43D.
[00293]         FIGURE 43C shows an arrangement wherein a single light source 880 driven
by a single controller 882 is arranged to provide display illumination.          The directional
backlight may thus comprise a waveguide 1 comprising an input end 2; a single light source
880 disposed at a predetermined input position in a lateral direction across the input end 2 of
the waveguide 1, the waveguide 1 further comprising first and second, opposed guide
surfaces 6, 8 for guiding light along the waveguide 1, and a reflective end 4 facing the input
end 2 for reflecting the input light back through the waveguide 1, the first guide surface 6
being arranged to guide light by total internal reflection and the second guide surface 8
having a stepped shape comprising (a) a plurality of facets 12 oriented to reflect light from
the light source 880, after reflection from the reflective end 4, through the first guide surface
6 into an optical window in an output direction positioned in a lateral direction (y-axis) in
dependence on the input position of the light source 880, and (b) intermediate regions 10
between the facets 12 that are arranged to guide light through the waveguide 1; a rear
reflector 300 comprising an array of reflective facets 3 10 arranged to reflect light from the
light source 808, that is transmitted through the plurality of facets 12 of the waveguide 1,
back through the waveguide 1 to exit through the first guide surface 6 into said optical
windows.
[00294]         Advantageously the cost and complexity of the device is reduced and a wide
angle of illumination profile can be achieved. FIGURE 43D shows a further arrangement
wherein a single high brightness LED 886 and two low brightness but high efficiency LEDs
                                               59

 WO 2014/130860                                                               PCT/US2014/017779
884, 888 are arranged to provide a viewing window luminous intensity 265 profile with
position 267 in the window plane 106 comprising a central region 815 with light directly
from the LEDs and outer region 817 with light reflected from the reflector 842. The ratio of
the height of the reflective end 4 to the input end 2 may be set to determine the ratio of light
in regions 815 and 817. The efficiency of the output can thus be optimised while achieving a
wide viewing angle mode and a high brightness 2D mode.
 [00295]        FIGURES 44A-44B are schematic diagrams illustrating front and side views
respectively of an optical valve further comprising an asymmetric diffuser 848 arranged near
the reflecting end 4 to improve output uniformity. Diffuser 848 may be arranged to provide
substantially low diffusion for rays 845 propagating in the x-y plane while providing a small
amount of diffused rays 847 for rays propagating in the x-z plane.            Such diffuser may
advantageously achieve increased display area uniformity due to non-uniform angular
distribution of light rays in the x-z plane. Such non-uniform angular distribution of rays may
arise from diffraction effects and mode coupling effects within the waveguide 1 of the optical
valve. In an illustrative example, a diffuser with angular diffusion properties of 0.1' x 3'
may be arranged at the end 4.        Such a diffuser maybe buried in materials with different
refractive indices to reduce Fresnel reflections from the surface of the structures.
 [00296]        FIGURES 44C-44D are schematic diagrams illustrating front views of a
method to form an optical valve comprising waveguide 1. The waveguide 1 may be formed
by molding into an integrated body comprising curved facets 12. The body may comprise a
planar end 610. A Fresnel mirror assembly 600 may comprise a Fresnel surface 602 that is
metallised and formed between encapsulant layers 604, 606. Alternatively the Fresnel mirror
may comprise an embossed reflector formed in a similar manner to that shown in FIGURES
28F-I and may further be provided with protective layers 604, 606.           Adhesive layer 608
which may comprise some diffusing function similar to that shown in FIGURE 44B may be
provided to attach the Fresnel mirror assembly to the end 610 of the integrated body of the
waveguide 1. Further reflective layers 612, 614 may be attached to the side walls of the
waveguide 1 to reduce the visibility of off-axis voids. Advantageously the Fresnel mirror
assembly can be formed with high precision and high reflectivity in a process that is separate
to the integrated body, achieving increased optical performance.
[00297]         It may be desirable to reduce device size by integrating components of the
backlight with the structure of the display system, for example mobile phone, phablet or
tablet.
                                                60

 WO 2014/130860                                                             PCT/US2014/017779
 [00298]         FIGURE 45A is a schematic diagram illustrating a front view of an optical
valve in a first assembly step comprising an LED array arranged on a first device frame and a
Fresnel mirror arranged on a second device frame and FIGURE 45B shows the arrangement
during a second assembly step. In a first step, light source array 15 such as an LED array is
assembled on a substrate comprising an electrode and insulator layer 851 and a metal frame
850 that may be the outer frame of a display device such as a mobile phone or tablet. Further
films such as ESR 842 may be applied in the regions of the array 15 to recycle light within
the waveguide 1 as shown in FIGURES 44A-B. Further a Fresnel mirror 854 may be formed
on or in the frame 852 of the device. Such Fresnel mirror may be molded directly into the
frame itself or may be formed on the frame. During the assembly step, the Fresnel mirror
may be attached by means of an index matching material 856 to the waveguide 1 forming an
integrated component. Further the light source array may be brought into proximity to the
input side of the waveguide 1 during the assembly step. Further electronic components and
boards 858 may be arranged around the backlight.
 [00299]         Advantageously the size of the bezel of the display device may be reduced and
the number of separate components further reduced, minimizing cost. Further the frame 850
may provide a heat-sink for the LEDs of the array 15, thus improving thermal contact to the
external environment, improving efficiency and lifetime of the LEDs.
[00300]          FIGURES 46A-46C are schematic diagrams illustrating a front view and side
views of a battery 860 for display devices comprising a reflective layer. The reflective film
comprising facets 310, 312 may be arranged on the battery 860 with external contacts 862 to
the battery. Along cross section 864, FIGURE 46B shows that the film 300 may be attached
to the top cover 866 of the battery, with battery material 870 and bottom cover 868.
Advantageously the battery may be arranged as a substantially flat supporting layer so that
the optical output windows from the reflective layer 300 are aligned across the area of the
display. Alternatively as shown in FIGURE 46C the reflective layer may be arranged in the
cover 872 of the battery, achieving a more integrated and thinner structure with desirable
flatness for imaging windows.
[00301]          Display  brightness  may be substantially increased        in comparison to
arrangements that do not use the prismatic reflective film 300 and reflective polarizer 402.
Light source cost may be reduced and battery lifetime may be extended.
[00302]          FIGURE 47 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a display
device comprising a reflective film arranged on a wedged battery 870 with wedge angle 871
                                               61

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
matched to the taper angle of the waveguide 1. Advantageously the rear reflector 300 can be
integrated onto the battery, optimizing the volume of the battery.
 [003031         FIGURE 48 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a display
device comprising a slotted side wall for LED placement to achieve reduced bezel width.
Transmissive spatial light modulator 48 such as a liquid crystal display may further comprise
a border region 427 that may comprise addressing electronics and sealing material and is
outside the active area of the SLM 48. Shading layer 502 is arranged to hide visibility of the
edge regions of the directional backlight. LED package 622 with emitting region 624, and
electrical connection regions 626 may be arranged on electrical fan-out and attached to the
side wall 850 of the mobile device, optionally in cavity region 851.           In an illustrative
example, a side bezel width of less than 2.5mm can be achieved, where the gap between the
edge of the active area and the region 624 is approximately three times the height of the
waveguide 1 input end 2.
[00304]          FIGURE 49 is a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of a display
device comprising a slotted side wall for mirror placement to achieve reduced bezel width.
Shading layer 502 is arranged partially in optional cut-out 853 in side wall 852 to obscure
scatter from the edge of mirror 600. To continue the illustrative example, a side bezel width
of less than 2.5mm can be achieved, where the gap between the edge of the active area and
the mirror 600 is approximately three times the height of the mirror 600.
[00305]          As may be used herein, the terms "substantially" and "approximately" provide
an industry-accepted tolerance for its corresponding term and/or relativity between
items. Such an industry-accepted tolerance ranges from zero percent to ten percent and
corresponds to, but is not limited to, component values, angles, et cetera. Such relativity
between items ranges between approximately zero percent to ten percent.
[00306]          While various embodiments in accordance with the principles disclosed herein
have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of
example only, and not limitation. Thus, the breadth and scope of this disclosure should not
be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only
in accordance with any claims and their equivalents issuing from this disclosure.
Furthermore, the above advantages and features are provided in described embodiments, but
shall not limit the application of such issued claims to processes and structures accomplishing
any or all of the above advantages.
                                                62

 WO 2014/130860                                                              PCT/US2014/017779
 [003071        Additionally, the section headings herein are provided for consistency with the
suggestions under 37 CFR 1.77 or otherwise to provide organizational cues. These headings
shall not limit or characterize the embodiment(s) set out in any claims that may issue from
this disclosure. Specifically and by way of example, although the headings refer to a
"Technical Field," the claims should not be limited by the language chosen under this
heading to describe the so-called field. Further, a description of a technology in the
"Background" is not to be construed as an admission that certain technology is prior art to
any embodiment(s) in this disclosure. Neither is the "Summary" to be considered as a
characterization of the embodiment(s) set forth in issued claims. Furthermore, any reference
in this disclosure to "invention" in the singular should not be used to argue that there is only a
single point of novelty in this disclosure. Multiple embodiments may be set forth according to
the limitations of the multiple claims issuing from this disclosure, and such claims
accordingly define the embodiment(s), and their equivalents, that are protected thereby. In all
instances, the scope of such claims shall be considered on their own merits in light of this
disclosure, but should not be constrained by the headings set forth herein.
                                                63

WO 2014/130860                                                                 PCT/US2014/017779
Claims:
1.      A directional backlight comprising:
         a waveguide comprising an input end;
         an array of light sources disposed at different input positions in a lateral direction
across the input end of the waveguide,
        the waveguide further comprising first and second, opposed guide surfaces for
guiding light along the waveguide, and a reflective end facing the input end for reflecting the
input light back through the waveguide, the first guide surface being arranged to guide light
by total internal reflection and the second guide surface having a stepped shape comprising:
                  a plurality of facets oriented to reflect light from the light sources, after
         reflection from the reflective end, through the first guide surface into optical windows
         in output directions distributed in a lateral direction to the normal to the first guide
         surface in dependence on the input positions, and
                  intermediate regions between the facets that are arranged to guide light
        through the waveguide;
         a rear reflector comprising a linear array of reflective facets arranged to reflect light
from the light sources, that is transmitted through the plurality of facets of the waveguide,
back through the waveguide to exit through the first guide surface into said optical windows.
2.      A directional backlight according to claim 1, further comprising a diffuser disposed to
receive light output through the first guide surface.
3.      A directional backlight according to claim 2, wherein the diffuser is an asymmetric
diffuser that is arranged to provide greater angular dispersion in a direction orthogonal to said
lateral direction than in said lateral direction.
                                                  64

 WO 2014/130860                                                                  PCT/US2014/017779
4.      A directional backlight according to claim 2, further comprising a Fresnel lens having
optical power in at least said lateral direction, disposed between the first guide surface of the
waveguide and the diffuser.
5.      A directional backlight according to claim 1, further comprising a Fresnel lens having
optical power at least in said lateral direction disposed to receive light output through the first
guide surface.
6.      A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the facets of the waveguide and
the reflective facets of the rear reflector are inclined in the same sense in a common plane
orthogonal to said lateral direction.
7.      A directional backlight according to claim 6, wherein the facets of the waveguide are
inclined at an angle (iu/2-a) to the normal to the first guide surface and the reflective facets of
the rear reflector are inclined at an angle 0 to the normal to the first guide surface, and 23 >
n/2 - sin-1 ( n . sin ( a - 0c)), 0c being the critical angle of the facets of the waveguide and n
being the refractive index of the material of the waveguide.
8.      A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the rear reflector is spaced from
the waveguide such that the light from an individual facet of the waveguide is incident on
plural reflective facets of the rear reflector, the rear reflector further comprising intermediate
facets extending between the reflective facets of the rear reflector, the intermediate facets
being inclined in an opposite sense from the reflective facets of the rear reflector at an angle
such that said light from the light sources that is transmitted through the plurality of facets of
                                                   65

 WO 2014/130860                                                                 PCT/US2014/017779
the waveguide is not incident on the intermediate facets.
9.      A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the reflective facets of the rear
reflector have an irregular pitch.
 10.    A directional backlight according to claim 9, wherein the reflective facets of the rear
reflector have an irregular, randomised pitch.
 11.    A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the reflective facets of the rear
reflector have an inclination that varies across the array of reflective facets.
 12.    A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the reflective facets of the rear
reflector are linear.
 13.    A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the reflective facets of the rear
reflector are curved.
 14.    A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the reflective facets of the rear
reflector are concave, and arranged in alignment with the facets of the waveguide.
 15.    A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the reflective facets of the rear
reflector are undulating along their length.
 16.    A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the rear reflector further
comprise a rough diffusing surface on at least some of the reflective facets.
                                                66

WO 2014/130860                                                                   PCT/US2014/017779
17.     A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the facets of the rear reflector
are disposed behind respective ones of the facets of the waveguide and arranged to reflect all
of the light incident thereon from the light sources that is transmitted through the respective
one of the facets of the waveguide.
18.     A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the reflective end has positive
optical power in a lateral direction across the waveguide.
19.     A directional backlight according to claim 1, wherein the rear reflector formed by at
least two polarized reflector sheets arranged to reflect light that is polarized in respective
polarization directions that are orthogonal to each other, the polarized reflector sheets being
shaped to form said linear array of reflective facets.
20.     A directional display device comprising:
        a directional backlight comprising:
                 a waveguide comprising an input end;
                 an array of light sources disposed at different input positions in a lateral
direction across the input end of the waveguide,
                the waveguide further comprising first and second, opposed guide surfaces for
guiding light along the waveguide, and a reflective end facing the input end for reflecting the
input light back through the waveguide, the first guide surface being arranged to guide light
by total internal reflection and the second guide surface having a stepped shape comprising:
                         a plurality of facets oriented to reflect light from the light sources, after
                reflection from the reflective end, through the first guide surface into optical
                                                   67

 WO 2014/130860                                                                  PCT/US2014/017779
                 windows in output directions distributed in a lateral direction to the normal to
                 the first guide surface in dependence on the input positions, and
                          intermediate regions between the facets that are arranged to guide light
                 through the waveguide;
                  a rear reflector comprising a linear array of reflective facets arranged to reflect
light from the light sources, that is transmitted through the plurality of facets of the
waveguide, back through the waveguide to exit through the first guide surface into said
optical windows;
         a transmissive spatial light modulator arranged to receive the light output through the
first guide surface and arranged to modulate a first polarization component of that light
having a first polarization; and
         a reflective polarizer disposed between the first guide surface of the waveguide and
the spatial light modulator and arranged to transmit the first polarization component and to
reflect a second polarization component of the output light having a polarization orthogonal
to the first polarization as rejected light,
        the rear reflector further comprising intermediate facets extending between the
reflective facets of the rear reflector and inclined in opposite senses from the reflective facets
of the rear reflector in a common plane, so that pairs of a reflective facet and an intermediate
facet together form corner facets arranged to reflect rejected light for supply back to the
spatial light modulator, the pairs of a reflective facet and an intermediate facet being inclined
in a plane that is oriented around the normal to the spatial light modulator so that the rear
reflector converts the polarization of rejected light supplied back to spatial light modulator
into the first polarization on reflection.
                                                  68

 WO 2014/130860                                                                   PCT/US2014/017779
21.     A directional display device according to claim 20, further comprising a polarization
rotator disposed between the reflective polarizer and the spatial light modulator and arranged
to rotate the first polarization component.
22.     A directional display device according to claim 20 further comprising a transmissive
spatial light modulator arranged to receive the output light from the first guide surface.
23.     A display apparatus comprising:
         a directional backlight comprising:
                  a waveguide comprising an input end;
                  an array of light sources disposed at different input positions in a lateral
direction across the input end of the waveguide,
                 the waveguide further comprising first and second, opposed guide surfaces for
guiding light along the waveguide, and a reflective end facing the input end for reflecting the
input light back through the waveguide, the first guide surface being arranged to guide light
by total internal reflection and the second guide surface having a stepped shape comprising:
                          a plurality of facets oriented to reflect light from the light sources, after
                 reflection from the reflective end, through the first guide surface into optical
                 windows in output directions distributed in a lateral direction to the normal to
                 the first guide surface in dependence on the input positions, and
                          intermediate regions between the facets that are arranged to guide light
                 through the waveguide;
                  a rear reflector comprising a linear array of reflective facets arranged to reflect
light from the light sources, that is transmitted through the plurality of facets of the
waveguide, back through the waveguide to exit through the first guide surface into said
                                                    69

 WO 2014/130860                                                                PCT/US2014/017779
optical windows;
         a transmissive spatial light modulator arranged to receive the light output through the
first guide surface and arranged to modulate a first polarization component of that light
having a first polarization; and
         a reflective polarizer disposed between the first guide surface of the waveguide and
the spatial light modulator and arranged to transmit the first polarization component and to
reflect a second polarization component of the output light having a polarization orthogonal
to the first polarization as rejected light,
        the rear reflector further comprising intermediate facets extending between the
reflective facets of the rear reflector and inclined in opposite senses from the reflective facets
of the rear reflector in a common plane, so that pairs of a reflective facet and an intermediate
facet together form corner facets arranged to reflect rejected light for supply back to the
spatial light modulator, the pairs of a reflective facet and an intermediate facet being inclined
in a plane that is oriented around the normal to the spatial light modulator so that the rear
reflector converts the polarization of rejected light supplied back to spatial light modulator
into the first polarization on reflection;
        wherein the reflective end has positive optical power in a lateral direction across the
waveguide; and
         a control system arranged to selectively operate the light sources to direct light into
optical windows corresponding to said output directions.
24.     A display apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the display apparatus is an
autostereoscopic display apparatus wherein the control system is further arranged to control
the display device to display temporally multiplexed left and right images and synchronously
to direct the displayed images into optical windows in positions corresponding to left and
                                                 70

 WO 2014/130860                                                                 PCT/US2014/017779
right eyes of an observer.
25.     A display apparatus according to claim 24, wherein the control system further
comprises a sensor system arranged to detect the position of an observer across the display
device, and
        the control system is arranged to direct the output light into optical windows selected
in dependence on the detected position of the observer.
26.     A directional backlight comprising:
         a waveguide comprising an input end;
         a single light source disposed at a predetermined input position in a lateral direction
across the input end of the waveguide,
        the waveguide further comprising first and second, opposed guide surfaces for
guiding light along the waveguide, and a reflective end facing the input end for reflecting the
input light back through the waveguide, the first guide surface being arranged to guide light
by total internal reflection and the second guide surface having a stepped shape comprising
(a) a plurality of facets oriented to reflect light from the light source, after reflection from the
reflective end, through the first guide surface into an optical window in an output direction
positioned in a lateral direction in dependence on the input position of the light source, and
(b) intermediate regions between the facets that are arranged to guide light through the
waveguide;
         a rear reflector comprising an array of reflective facets arranged to reflect light from
the light source, that is transmitted through the plurality of facets of the waveguide, back
through the waveguide to exit through the first guide surface into said optical windows.
                                                  71

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
