                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040W01
                            ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        Techniques for L3 pairing and workforce management in a contact center system are
disclosed. In one particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for L3
pairing in a contact center system comprising identifying a plurality of contacts waiting for
assignment, identifying a plurality of agents available for assignment, and selecting at least one
of the plurality of agents with at least one of the plurality of contacts for assignment and
connection within the contact center system.
                                                41

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
        TECHNIQUES FOR L3 PAIRING AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT IN A
                                  CONTACT CENTER SYSTEM
                                  FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
 5          This disclosure generally relates to pairing contacts and agents in contact centers and,
   more particularly, to techniques for L3 pairing and workforce management in a contact center
   system.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
10         A typical contact center algorithmically assigns contacts arriving at the contact center
   to agents available to handle those contacts. At times, the contact center may have agents
   available and waiting for assignment to inbound or outbound contacts (e.g., telephone calls.
   Internet chat sessions, email). At other times, the contact center may have contacts waiting in
   one or more queues for an agent to become available for assignment.
15         In some typical contact centers, contacts are assigned to agents based on time of
   arrival, and agents receive contacts based on the time when those agents became available.
   This strategy may be referred to as a "first-in, first-out," "FIFO," or "round-robin" strategy.
   In other typical contact centers, other strategies may be used, such as "performance-based
   routing," or a "PBR," strategy.
20          Typical contact centers preferentially minimize overall agent idle time and overall
   contact waiting time. To that end, if contacts are waiting in a queue, a contact will be
   assigned to an agent soon after an agent becomes available for assignment. Similarly, if
   agents are idle, waiting for contacts to arrive, an agent will be assigned to a contact soon after
   a contact becomes available for assignment.
                                                    1

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
           However, if a contact center uses a pairing strategy that is designed to choose among
   multiple possible pairings, it may be inefficient to choose the first available pairing for the
   sake of minimizing contact hold time or agent idle time.
           In view of the foregoing, it may be understood that there may be a need for a system
 5 that enables improving the amount of choice available to improve the efficiency and
   performance of pairing strategies that are designed to choose among multiple possible
   pairings.
                               SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
10         Techniques for L3 pairing in a contact center system are disclosed. In one particular
   embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for L3 pairing in a contact center
   system comprising identifying, by at least one computer processor configured to operate in
   the contact center system, a plurality of contacts waiting for assignment. The method may
   also comprise identifying, by the at least one computer processor, a plurality of agents
15 available for assignment.    The method may further comprise selecting, by the at least one
   computer processor, at least one of the plurality of agents with at least one of the plurality of
   contacts for assignment and connection within the contact center system.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, at least two pairs of
   agents   and contacts    from the pluralities      of agents and contacts may         be selected
20 contemporaneously.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the selecting may
   comprise applying, by the at least one computer processor, a behavioral pairing strategy to at
   least some of the plurality of agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the selecting may
25 comprise applying, by the at least one computer processor, a diagonal strategy to at least
                                                    2

                                                          Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                  Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   some of the plurality of agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
            In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for L3
   pairing in a contact center system comprising identifying, by at least one computer processor
   configured to operate in the contact center system, a first contact waiting for assignment and
 5 a first agent available for assignment. The method may also comprise postponing, by the at
   least one computer processor, assignment until at least a second contact arrives at the contact
   center system or a second agent becomes available for assignment. The method may further
   comprise selecting, by the at least one computer processor, for assignment and connection
   within the contact center system, the first contact and one of at least the first and second
10 agents or the first agent and one of at least the first and second contacts.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the postponing may
   comprise postponing, by the at least one computer processor, selection until at least the
   second contact arrives at the contact center system and the second agent becomes available
   for assignment.
15          In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the selecting may
   comprise selecting, by the at least one computer processor, for assignment and connection
   within the contact center system, the first contact and one of at least the first and second
   agents, and the first agent and one of at least the first and second contacts.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the selecting may
20 comprise applying, by the at least one computer processor, a behavioral pairing strategy to at
   least some of the plurality agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the selecting may
   comprise applying, by the at least one computer processor., a diagonal strategy to at least
   some of the plurality agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
25          In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for L3
                                                     3

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   pairing in a contact center system comprising identifying, by at least one computer processor
   configured to operate in the contact center system, a first contact.       The method may also
   comprise identifying, by the at least one computer processor, a first agent available for
   assignment to the first contact. The method may further comprise comparing, by the at least
 5 one computer processor, information about the first contact with information about the first
   agent.   The method may additionally comprise postponing, by the at least one computer
   processor, by a first period of delay, assignment of the first agent and assignment of the first
   contact based on the comparison.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the first period of
10 delay is at least thirty seconds or is not more than thirty seconds.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the first period of
   delay is at least two minutes or is not more than two minutes.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the first period of
   delay may end after a second agent becomes available for assignment or a second contact
15 arrives at the contact center system.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the first period of
   delay may end after at least two additional agents become available for assignment or at least
   two additional contacts arrive at the contact center system.
           In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for L3
20 pairing in a contact center system comprising determining, by at least one computer processor
   configured to operate in the contact center system, a minimum amount of agent choice. The
   method may also comprise determining, by the at least one computer processor, a maximum
   amount of delay. The method may further comprise postponing agent selection, by the at
   least one computer processor, until at least one of the following conditions is satisfied: (a) the
25 maximum amount of delay has elapsed; or (b) the minimum amount of agent choice has been
                                                     4

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   reached.    The method may additionally comprise selecting, by the at least one computer
   processor, an agent among one or more agents for connection to an available contact within
   the contact center system.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the maximum amount
 5 of delay is less than 30 seconds and/or the minimum amount of agent choice is greater than
   three available agents.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, selecting the agent
   may comprise applying a behavioral pairing strategy.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the available contact
10 may be one contact of a plurality of contacts waiting for assignment to an agent.
            In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for L3
   pairing in a contact center system comprising determining, by at least one computer processor
   configured to operate in the contact center system, a minimum amount of contact choice.
   The method may also comprise determining, by the at least one computer processor, a
15 maximum amount of delay. The method may further comprise postponing contact selection,
   by the at least one computer processor, until at least one of the following conditions is
   satisfied: (a) the maximum amount of delay has elapsed; or (b) the minimum amount of
   contact choice has been reached. The method may additionally comprise selecting, by the at
   least one computer processor, a contact among one or more contacts for connection to an
20 available agent within the contact center system.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the maximum amount
   of delay is less than 30 seconds and/or the minimum amount of contact choice is greater than
   three contacts waiting for assignment.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, selecting the contact
25 may comprise applying a behavioral pairing strategy.
                                                   5%

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the available agent
   may be one agent of a plurality of agents waiting for assignment to a contact.
           In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for L3
   pairing in a contact center system comprising determining, by at least one computer processor
 5 configured to operate in the contact center system, a maximum amount of delay. The method
   may also comprise determining, by the at least one computer processor, a first score of a first
   preferred pairing between a first agent and a first contact. The method may further comprise
   postponing pairing selection, by the at least one computer processor, until at least one of the
   following conditions is satisfied: (a) the maximum amount of delay has elapsed; or (b) an
10 arrival of at least a second agent or at least a second contact that results in an emergence of a
   second preferred pairing better than the first preferred pairing. The method may additionally
   comprise selecting, by the at least one computer processor, the second preferred pairing for
   connection within the contact center system.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the maximum amount
15 of delay is less than 30 seconds.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, determining the first
   and second preferred pairings may comprise applying a behavioral pairing strategy.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, arrival of the second
   agent and the second contact may result in the emergence of the second preferred pairing
20 consisting of the second agent and the second contact.
           In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, arrival of the second
   agent may result in the emergence of the second preferred pairing consisting of the second
   agent and the first contact.
                                                     6

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, arrival of the second
   contact may result in the emergence of the second preferred pairing consisting of the second
   contact and an agent different from the first agent that was already available.
            In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a system for L3
 5 pairing in a contact center system comprising at least one computer processor configured to
   operate in the contact center system, wherein the at least one computer processor is further
   configured to perform the above method steps.
            In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as an article of
   manufacture for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising a non-transitory computer
10 processor readable medium, and instructions stored on the medium, wherein the instructions
   may be configured to be readable from the medium by at least one computer processor
   configured to operate in the contact center system and thereby cause the at least one computer
   processor to operate so as to perform the above method steps.
            Techniques for workforce management in a contact center system are also disclosed.
15 In one particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for workforce
   management in a contact center system comprising generating, by at least one computer
   processor configured to operate in the contact center system, historical workforce data
   regarding an agent workforce capacity of the contact center system. The method may also
   comprise initiating, by the at least one computer processor, an increase or decrease to an
20 agent workforce of the contact center system based at least in part on the historical workforce
   data to increase an amount of choice among available agents or waiting contacts.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, an increase may be
   initiated, wherein an increase in agent surplus is expected.
                                                   7

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                              Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, a decrease may be
   initiated, wherein an increase in contact queue size is expected, and wherein an increase in
   contact center performance is expected.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the method may
 5 further comprise increasing or decreasing, by the at least one computer processor, the agent
   workforce by a first amount based on the initiated increase or decrease.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, the method may
   further comprise generating, by the at least one computer processor, historical performance
   data regarding performance of the contact center system, wherein the initiated increase or
10 decrease to the agent workforce may be based in part on the historical performance data.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, an increase may be
   initiated, wherein an increased amount of time spent in an LI state is expected.
            In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment, an increase may be
   initiated, wherein an increased amount of time spent in an L2 state is expected.
15          In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a system for
   workforce management in a contact center system comprising at least one computer
   processor configured to operate in the contact center system, wherein the at least one
   computer processor is further configured to perform the above method steps:
            In another particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as an article of
20 manufacture for workforce management in a contact center system comprising a non
   transitory computer processor readable medium, and instructions stored on the medium,
   wherein the instructions may be configured to be readable from the medium by at least one
   computer processor configured to operate in the contact center system and thereby cause the
   at least one computer processor to operate so as to perform the above method steps.
25          The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to
                                                  8

                                                          Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   particular embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present
   disclosure is described below with reference to particular embodiments, it should be
   understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art
   having    access   to the    teachings    herein  will   recognize  additional  implementations,
 5 modifications, and embodiments, as well as other fields of use, which are within the scope of
   the present disclosure as described herein, and with respect to which the present disclosure
   may be of significant utility.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10         In order to facilitate a fuller understanding of the present disclosure, reference is now
   made to the accompanying drawings, in which like elements are referenced with like
   numerals. These drawings should not be construed as limiting the present disclosure, but are
   intended to be illustrative only.
           FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of a contact center according to embodiments of the
15 present disclosure.
           FIG. 2 depicts a schematic representation of a contact center system timeline
   according to embodiments of the present disclosure.
           FIG. 3 depicts a schematic representation of a choice-based pairing strategy according
   to embodiments of the present disclosure.
20         FIG. 4 shows a flow diagram of an L3 pairing method according to embodiments of
   the present disclosure.
           FIG. 5 shows a flow diagram of an L3 pairing method according to embodiments of
   the present disclosure.
           FIG. 6 shows a flow diagram of an L3 pairing method according to embodiments of
25 the present disclosure.
                                                    9

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            One example of a pairing strategy that is designed to choose among multiple possible
   pairings is a "behavioral pairing" or "BP" strategy, under which contacts and agents may be
 5 deliberately (preferentially) paired in a fashion that enables the assignment of subsequent
   contact-agent pairs such that when the benefits of all the assignments under a BP strategy are
   totaled they may exceed those of FIFO and other strategies such as performance-based
   routing ("PBR") strategies. BP is designed to encourage balanced utilization of agents within
   a skill queue while nevertheless simultaneously improving overall contact center performance
10 beyond what FIFO or PBR methods will allow. This is a remarkable achievement inasmuch
   as BP acts on the same calls and same agents as FIFO and PBR methods, utilizes agents
   approximately    evenly   as FIFO     provides,   and yet improves     overall contact  center
   performance. BP is described in, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 9,300,802, which is incorporated by
   reference herein. Additional information about these and other features regarding pairing or
15 matching modules using BP strategies (sometimes also referred to as "satisfaction mapping,"
   "SATMAP," "routing system," "routing engine," etc.) is described in, for example, U.S.
   Patent No. 8,879,715, which is incorporated herein by reference.
            In some embodiments, a contact center may switch (or "cycle") periodically among at
   least two different pairing strategies (e.g., between FIFO and an L3 pairing strategy).
20 Additionally, the outcome of each contact-agent interaction may be recorded along with an
   identification of which pairing strategy (e.g., FIFO, or BP enabled with L3) had been used to
   assign that particular contact-agent pair. By tracking which interactions produced which
   results, the contact center may measure the performance attributable to a first strategy (e.g.,
   FIFO) and the performance attributable to a second strategy (e.g., BP with L3). In this way,
25 the relative performance of one strategy may be benchmarked against the other. The contact
                                                   10

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   center may, over many periods of switching between different pairing strategies, more
   reliably attribute performance gain to one strategy or the other. Benchmarking pairing
   strategies is described in, e.g., U.S. Patent Application No. 15/131,915, filed April 18, 2016,
   which is incorporated herein by reference.
 5         FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of a contact center system 100 according to
   embodiments of the present disclosure. The description herein describes network elements,
   computers, and/or components of a system and method for simulating contact center systems
   that may include one or more modules. As used herein, the term "module" may be
   understood to refer to computing software, firmware, hardware, and/or various combinations
10 thereof. Modules, however, are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on
   hardware, firmware, or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium (i.e.,
   modules are not software per se). It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules
   may be combined, integrated, separated, and/or duplicated to support various applications.
   Also, a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be
15 performed at one or more other modules and/or by one or more other devices instead of or in
   addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further, the modules may be
   implemented across multiple devices and/or other components local or remote to one another.
   Additionally, the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device,
   and/or may be included in both devices.
20         As shown in FIG. 1, the contact center system 100 may include a central switch 110.
   The central switch 110 may receive incoming contacts (e.g.., callers) or support outbound
   connections to contacts via a telecommunications network (not shown). The central switch
   110 may include contact routing hardware and software for helping to route contacts among
   one or more contact centers, or to one or more PBX/ACDs or other queuing or switching
                                                   11

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   components, including other Internet-based, cloud-based, or otherwise networked contact
   agent hardware or software-based contact center solutions.
           The central switch 110 may not be necessary such as if there is only one contact
   center, or if there is only one PBX/ACD routing component, in the contact center system 100.
 5 If more than one contact center is part of the contact center system 100, each contact center
   may include at least one contact center switch (e.g., contact center switches 120A and 120B).
   The contact center switches 120A and 120B may be communicatively coupled to the central
   switch 110. In embodiments, various topologies of routing and network components may be
   configured to implement the contact center system.
10         Each contact center switch for each contact center may be communicatively coupled
   to a plurality (or "pool") of agents. Each contact center switch may support a certain number
   of agents (or "seats") to be logged in at one time. At any given time, a logged-in agent may
   be available and waiting to be connected to a contact, or the logged-in agent may be
   unavailable for any of a number of reasons., such as being connected to another contact,
15 performing certain post-call functions such as logging information about the call, or taking a
   break.
           In the example of FIG. 1, the central switch 110 routes contacts to one of two contact
   centers via contact center switch 120A and contact center switch 120B, respectively. Each of
   the contact center switches 120A and 120B are shown with two agents each. Agents 130A
20 and 130B may be logged into contact center switch 120A, and agents 130C and 130D may be
   logged into contact center switch 120B.
           The contact center system 100 may also be communicatively coupled to an integrated
   service from, for example, a third party vendor. In the example of FIG. 1, L3 pairing module
   140 may be communicatively coupled to one or more switches in the switch system of the
25 contact center system 100, such as central switch 110, contact center switch 120A, or contact
                                                  12

                                                      Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                             Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   center switch 120B. In some embodiments, switches of the contact center system 100 may be
   communicatively coupled to multiple L3 pairing modules. In some embodiments, L3 pairing
   module 140 may be embedded within a component of a contact center system (e.g.,
   embedded in or otherwise integrated with a switch). The L3 pairing module 140 may receive
 5 information from a switch (e.g., contact center switch 120A) about agents logged into the
   switch (e.g., agents 130A and 130B) and about incoming contacts via another switch (e.g.,
   central switch 110) or, in some embodiments, from a network (e.g., the Internet or a
   telecommunications network) (not shown).
           A contact center may include multiple pairing modules (e.g., a BP module and a FIFO
10 module) (not shown), and one or more pairing modules may be provided by one or more
   different vendors. In some embodiments, one or more pairing modules may be components of
   L3 pairing module 140 or one or more switches such as central switch 110 or contact center
   switches 120A and 120B. In some embodiments, an L3 pairing module may determine which
   pairing module may handle pairing for a particular contact. For example, the L3 pairing
15 module may alternate between enabling pairing via the BP module and enabling pairing with
   the FIFO module. In other embodiments, one pairing module (e.g., the BP module) may be
   configured to emulate other pairing strategies. For example, an L3 pairing module, or an L3
   pairing component integrated with BP components in the BP module, may determine whether
   the BP module may use BP pairing or emulated FIFO pairing for a particular contact. In this
20 case, "BP on" may refer to times when the BP module is applying the BP pairing strategy,
   and "BP off' may refer to other times when the BP module is applying a different pairing
   strategy (e.g., FIFO).
           In some embodiments, regardless of whether pairing strategies are handled by
   separate modules, or if some pairing strategies are emulated within a single pairing module,
25 the single pairing module may be configured to monitor and store information about pairings
                                                 13

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   made under any or all pairing strategies. For example, a BP module may observe and record
   data about FIFO pairings made by a FIFO module, or the BP module may observe and record
   data about emulated FIFO pairings made by a BP module operating in FIFO emulation mode.
           FIG. 2 depicts a schematic representation of a contact center system timeline
 5 according to embodiments of the present disclosure. In a given period of time (e.g., over
   several minutes, several hours, a day), the number of agents free or available to connect to
   contacts, or the number of contacts waiting in queue, will vary continuously as contacts arrive
   and depart the contact center system. The example of FIG. 2 depicts the capacity of a contact
   center system over a period of time along the x-axis from time "0" to time "50" (e.g., 0
10 minutes to 50 minutes). The y-axis depicts the number of free agents or the number of
   contacts in queue above and below the x-axis, respectively.
           At time 0 (e.g., when the contact center first opens at the beginning of the day), there
   are 10 agents available and waiting for contacts to arrive. Periods of time when a contact
   center has a surplus of available agents are referred to as "LI" environments. If a choice
15 based pairing strategy such as BP is used, the choice-based pairing strategy may choose from
   among any (or a subset) of the available agents when a contact arrives.
           As contacts arrive, and agents become occupied while communicating with those
   contacts, the number of available agents may decrease, as shown in FIG. 2 from time 0 to
   approximately time 5. The contact center is operating in an LI environment for this entire
20 duration, but the choice available to BP or another choice-based pairing strategy becomes
   increasingly limited-instead of having as many as ten (or more) agents available to choose
   among, by about time 5 there are only two or three agents to choose among.
           At other periods of time, there may be a shortage of agents, and contacts begin to
   queue, waiting for agents to become available for connection, as shown in FIG. 2 from about
25 time 7 to about time 21. Periods of time when a contact center has a shortage of available
                                                 14

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   agents are referred to as "L2" environments. If a choice-based pairing strategy such as BP is
   used, the choice-based pairing strategy may choose from among any (or a subset) of the
   waiting contacts when an agent becomes available.
           As agents become available to connect with contacts waiting in the queue, the size of
 5 the queue may decrease, as shown in FIG. 2 from approximately time 14 to about time 21.
   The contact center is operating in an L2 environment for this entire duration, but the choice
   available to BP or another choice-based pairing strategy becomes increasingly limited
   instead of having as many as ten (or more) contacts available to choose among at about time
   14. by about time 21 there are only two or three contacts in queue to choose among.
10         At some points in time, a contact center will transition from an LI state to an L2 state
   (e.g., point 210A at about time 6 and point 210C at about time 40) or vice versa, from an L2
   state to an LI state (e.g., point 210B at about time 23). These crossover points along the x
   axis (labeled the "1:1" line) occur when no choice is available to BP or another choice-based
   pairing strategy. For example, there may be a single contact waiting in queue, which may be
15 paired with whichever agent happens to become free next. Or there may be a single agent
   waiting idle. which may be paired with whichever contact happens to arrive at the contact
   center next.
           In some situations (not shown), a contact center may reach the "1:1" line and then
   bounce back up into LI (or bounce back down into L2). No L1-to-L2 or L2-to-Ll transition
20 occurs, but there is still a time at which no choice is available to BP.
           In some situations (not shown), a contact center may remain along the "1:1"       line for
   an extended period of time. In fact, a typical contact center may consider this line to indicate
   when the contact center is operating at a "perfect" capacity, with neither a surplus nor a
   shortage of agents for the given level of demand (e.g., number, frequency, and duration of
25 contacts arriving at the contact center). In these situations, a BP pairing strategy could go for
                                                    15

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   an extended period of time with no choices available other than the "1 agent : 1 contact"
   default choice.
           These points in time (or periods of time) when the contact center is operating along
   the "1:1" line, when a contact center has neither a surplus nor a shortage of available agents,
 5 are referred to as "LO" environments.
           FIG. 3 depicts a schematic representation of a choice-based pairing strategy according
   to embodiments of the present disclosure. When choice is limited, choice-based pairing
   strategies may suffer from suboptimal performance.           FIG. 3 shows an example        of a
   performance estimate or performance simulation of a choice-based pairing strategy. When
10 there are many contacts in queue ("calls in queue" as in FIG. 3) (e.g., at point 320), or when
   there are many agents free (e.g., at point 330), BP or another choice-based pairing strategy
   may perform optimally (e.g., at or near "100%" instant performance or efficiency).
           However, as the number of contacts in queue or free agents dwindle, there are fewer
   choices available to BP, and the performance or efficiency of BP could drop. In an LO
15 environment (e.g., at point 310), the instant performance or efficiency of BP is considered to
   be 0%, insofar as BP (without L3 pairing) is incapable of making a choice different from the
   pairing that any other non-L3 pairing strategy could make. In other words, if there is only one
   contact waiting for an agent, and only one agent waiting a contact, both FIFO and BP will
   pair that one contact with that one agent, with no other choice to make. As choice increases,
20 either as contacts fill a queue in an L2 environment, or more agents become available in an
   Li environment, performance steadily increases toward optimal instant performance.
           In the example of FIG. 3, 50 calls in queue and 50 agents free are the points 320 and
   330 at which this pairing strategy is expected to reach peak performance. However, in other
   embodiments or real-world contact center systems, peak performance may be reached at
25 varying levels of agent shortage or surplus (e.g., greater than 3 choices available, greater than
                                                  16

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   7 choices available, greater than 20 choices available, etc.).
           In situations such as LO environments in which the choice available to BP is too
   limited, it may be advantageous to delay or otherwise postpone connecting an agent to a
   contact. Introducing a delay could allow time for another agent or another contact to become
 5 available. If a contact center is operating in LO, and another agent arrives, the contact center
   will enter an L 1 environment with two agents to choose between instead of being forced into
   the default selection. Similarly, if a contact center is operating in LO, and another agent
   arrives, the contact center will enter an L2 environment with two contacts to choose between
   instead of being forced into the default selection.
10         In some embodiments, it may be desirable to delay even if the contact center already
   has some choice (e.g., already operating in Ll or L2), but the choice is limited. For example,
   if only ten contacts are waiting in queue when an agent becomes available, the pairing
   strategy of FIG. 3 is expected to have an instant performance of only 60%. It may be
   desirable to delay until closer to twenty contacts are waiting, at which point the expected
15 instant performance would be closer to 80%.
            When a delay is permitted, it is possible to enter a hybrid environment that is neither
   pure LI nor pure L2. For example, consider a contact center in which there are two contacts
   in queue, and only one agent is available. Following a delay, a second agent could become
   available, resulting in an environment in which there are multiple contacts in queue and
20 multiple agents available for connection. Periods of time when a contact center has multiple
   contacts in queue and multiple free agents are referred to as "L3" environments. In the
   present disclosure, an L3 pairing module is a pairing module capable of causing and handling
   L3 environments within a contact center system.
           FIG. 4 shows a flow diagram of an L3 pairing method 400 according to embodiments
25 of the present disclosure. At block 410, a first contact in queue may be identified. In LO and
                                                   17

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   LI environments, the first contact may be the only contact waiting in queue.
            At block 420, a first available agent may be identified. In LO and L2 environments,
   the first available agent may be the only available agent.
            At this point, a typical contact center may connect the first contact with the first agent.
 5 If the contact center is using a choice-based pairing strategy such as BP, this connection may
   be suboptimal, and the choice-based pairing strategy will operate at low instant performance
   or efficiency. Instead, at block 430, the L3 pairing method 400 may wait for a second contact
   to arrive or a second agent to become available, thereby increasing the amount of choice
   available to BP or another choice-based pairing strategy. In some situations, this waiting or
10 delay step may result in a contact center that is operating in an L3 environment.
            In some embodiments, the L3 pairing method may wait at block 430 for a threshold
   amount of time, during which more than one contact may arrive or more than one agent may
   become available. In other embodiments, the L3 pairing method may wait at block 430 for up
   to a maximum amount of time, after which it makes a connection regardless of whether or
15 how much additional choice was made available to the pairing strategy.
            At block 440, a choice of pairing may be made. In embodiments where the second
   contact has arrived, the first available agent may be preferably paired with a selected one of
   at least the first and second contacts. In situations where the second agent has become
   available, the first contact may be preferably paired with a selected one of at least the first
20 and second agents. In situations where there are multiple agents and multiple contacts (L3), a
   selected one of at least the first and second agent may be preferably paired with a selected
   one of at least the first and second contact.
            FIG. 5 shows a flow diagram of an L3 pairing method 500 according to embodiments
   of the present disclosure. L3 pairing method 500 is similar to L3 pairing method 400 (FIG. 4)
25 insofar as it uses a delay mechanism to increase choice. However, whereas pairing method
                                                    18

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   400 can result in an L3 environment, pairing method 500 compels an L3 environment.
           At block 510, a first contact may be identified.
           At block 520, a first available agent may be identified.
           At block 530, L3 pairing method 500 may wait for a second contact to arrive, and. at
 5 block 540, L3 pairing method 500 may wait for a second agent to arrive, resulting in an L3
   environment, in which multiple agents and multiple contacts are available for pairing.
           At block 550, in some embodiments, a selected one of at least the first and second
   contacts may be paired to a selected one of at least the first and second agents. In other
   embodiments, BP may "batch" pairings, such as by pairing both the first agent with one of
10 the first and second contacts, and the second agent with the other of the first and second
   contacts. In this way, BP may make multiple high-performance/efficiency pairings at once
   without further delay. In some embodiments, the contact center system may be able to effect
   each of these pairings/connections simultaneously, or nearly simultaneously, such as by a
   single batch instruction from an L3 pairing module. In other embodiments, the L3 pairing
15 module may serialize multiple pairing/connection instructions to effect each of these multiple
   pairings. The serialized instructions may be made nearly simultaneously such that there is no
   delay or only minimal delay between routing one connection and the next.
           In some embodiments, L3 pairing method 400 described above with respect to FIG. 4
   may also be configured to perform batch pairings in situations in which an L3 environment
20 arises.
           It is possible for L3 environments to arise without introducing a delay or postponing
   selecting/choosing a pairing. For example, two or more agents may become available
   simultaneously or nearly simultaneously when there are multiple contacts in queue, resulting
   in a transition from L2 to L3. Similarly, two or more contacts may arrive simultaneously or
25 nearly simultaneously, resulting in a transition from LI to L3. In some contact center
                                                  19

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   systems, the workforce may be instantaneously increased. For example, if there are many
   contacts waiting in queue, the contact center may modify the pool of logged-in agents to add
   more than one agent to the pool. Each of these newly-added agents would be available
   simultaneously or nearly simultaneously, resulting in a transition from L2 to L3.
 5         FIG. 6 shows a flow diagram of an L3 pairing method 600 according to embodiments
   of the present disclosure. At block 610, a plurality of contacts waiting in queue for
   assignment may be identified. At block 620, a plurality of agents available for assignment to
   any (or at least some) of the plurality of contacts may be identified.
           Consequently, the contact center is currently in an L3 environment, regardless of
10 whether it was achieved through a delay technique or other circumstances that gave rise to
   L3. At block 630, in some embodiments, one of the plurality of agents may be paired with
   one of the plurality of contacts that was not the earliest contact to arrive. In some
   embodiments, the L3 pairing method 600 may batch-pair multiple agents with multiple
   contacts, and in some situations it may be the case that none of the preferentially paired
15 contacts was the earliest contact to arrive.
           Similarly, in some embodiments, one of the plurality of contacts may be paired with
   one of the plurality of agents that was not the longest-waiting agent (or best-performing
   agent) that would have been selected according to a FIFO-based fairness metric (or PBR
   strategy). In some embodiments, the L3 pairing method 600 may batch-pair multiple contacts
20 with multiple agents, and in some situations it may be the case none of the preferentially
   paired agents was the longest-waiting agent (or best-performing agent, etc.).
           It is possible for an L3 pairing module to perform or otherwise emulate a FIFO or
   FIFO-like pairing strategy while the contact center system is an L3 state. In these situations,
   the L3 pairing module may always pair, for example, the longest-waiting contact (or the
25 higher-priority contact) at the head of the queue with, for example, the longest-waiting agent,
                                                   20

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   regardless of the other contacts in queue and available agents. In this sense, a FIFO pairing
   strategy is indifferent to LI (agent surplus), L2 (agent shortage), and L3 (multiple agents and
   multiple contacts) environments, operating no more or less efficiently as in an LO state.
   However, an L3-enabled choice-based pairing strategy such as BP with L3 can operate at
 5 higher average performance/efficiency when Li/L2/L3 states with increased choice are
   possible.
           In some embodiments, an L3 pairing module (e.g., L3 pairing module 140) or a
   similar module      may be     capable   of making an automated        workforce   management
   recommendation or decision within the contact center system. For example, instead of
10 preferentially trying to minimize contact hold time and agent free time, which causes the
   contact center to hover around LO or in periods of LI and L2 with limited amounts of choice,
   the contact center system could be advised or instructed to use a certain number of agents that
   is likely to keep the contact center system in high-choice environments. In some situations,
   the recommendation could be to staff additional agents (e.g., 10 additional agents, 100
15 additional agents, etc.) to increase the expected amount of time spent in high-choice LI. In
   other situations, the recommendation could be to staff fewer agents (e.g., 10 fewer agents,
   100 fewer agents, etc.) to increase the expected amount of time spent in high-choice L2.
           In some embodiments, the workforce management instruction or recommendation
   may balance the cost of employing additional agents and increasing agent free time against
20 the benefit of reducing contact wait time, or balancing the cost-savings of employing fewer
   agents and decreasing agent free time against the cost of increasing contact wait time. These
   recommendations may take into account the desired metric to optimize. For example, if the
   contact center management desires to optimize customer satisfaction, it may desirable to
   make a recommendation that errs on being in high-choice LI (agent surplus) rather than high
25 choice L2 (agent shortage). In either case, the recommendation or instruction may balance the
                                                   21

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
   cost of increasing agent free time or increasing contact wait time against the improved
   performance/efficiency of BP or another choice-based pairing strategy operating in higher
   choice Li, L2, or L3 environments, and avoiding inefficient LO environments in which only a
   default choice is available.
 5         At this point it should be noted that L3 pairing in a contact center system in
   accordance with the present disclosure as described above may involve the processing of
   input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and
   output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example, specific
   electronic components may be employed in an L3 pairing module or similar or related
10 circuitry for implementing the functions associated with L3 pairing in a contact center system
   in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively, one or more
   processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated
   with BP in a contact center system in accordance with the present disclosure as described
   above. If such is the case, it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions
15 may be stored on one or more non-transitory processor readable storage media (e.g., a
   magnetic disk or other storage medium), or transmitted to one or more processors via one or
   more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.
           The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments
   described herein. Indeed, other various embodiments of and modifications to the present
20 disclosure, in addition to those described herein, will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in
   the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus, such other
   embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present
   disclosure. Further, although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context
   of at least one particular implementation in at least one particular environment for at least one
25 particular purpose, those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not
                                                    22

                                                Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                       Client Reference No.: P16040WO1
limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any
number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly, the claims set forth below
should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as
described herein.
                                            23

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040W01
                                              CLAIMS
 1. A method for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
        identifying, by at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center
system, a plurality of contacts waiting for assignment;
        identifying, by the at least one computer processor, a plurality of agents available for
assignment; and
        selecting, by the at least one computer processor, at least one of the plurality of agents
with at least one of the plurality of contacts for assignment and connection within the contact
center system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least two pairs of agents and contacts from the pluralities of
agents and contacts are selected contemporaneously.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting comprises:
        applying, by the at least one computer processor, a behavioral pairing strategy to at least
some of the plurality of agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting comprises:
        applying, by the at least one computer processor, a diagonal strategy to at least some of
the plurality of agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
5. A method for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
                                                  24

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040W01
        identifying, by at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center
system, a first contact waiting for assignment and a first agent available for assignment;
        postponing, by the at least one computer processor, assignment until at least a second
contact arrives at the contact center system or a second agent becomes available for assignment;
and
         selecting, by the at least one computer processor, for assignment and connection within
the contact center system, the first contact and one of at least the first and second agents or the
first agent and one of at least the first and second contacts.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the postponing comprises:
        postponing, by the at least one computer processor, selection until at least the second
contact arrives at the contact center system and the second agent becomes available for
assignment.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the selecting comprises:
         selecting, by the at least one computer processor, for assignment and connection within
the contact center system, the first contact and one of at least the first and second agents, and the
first agent and one of at least the first and second contacts.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the selecting comprises:
        applying, by the at least one computer processor, a behavioral pairing strategy to at least
some of the plurality agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
                                                   25

                                                           Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                   Client Reference No.: P16040W01
9. The method of claim 5, wherein the selecting comprises:
        applying, by the at least one computer processor, a diagonal strategy to at least some of
the plurality agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
10. A system for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
        at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center system,
wherein the at least one computer processor is further configured to:
                 identify a plurality of contacts waiting for assignment;
                 identify a plurality of agents available for assignment; and
                 select at least one of the plurality of agents with at least one of the plurality of
contacts for assignment and connection within the contact center system.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein at least two pairs of agents and contacts from the pluralities
of agents and contacts are selected contemporaneously.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the selecting comprises applying a behavioral pairing
strategy to at least some of the plurality of agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the selecting comprises applying a diagonal strategy to at
least some of the plurality of agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
                                                   26

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                  Client Reference No.: P16040W01
14. A system for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
        at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center system,
wherein the at least one computer processor is further configured to:
                 identify a first contact waiting for assignment and a first agent available for
assignment;
                 postpone assignment until at least a second contact arrives at the contact center
system or a second agent becomes available for assignment; and
                 select, for assignment and connection within the contact center system, the first
contact and one of at least the first and second agents or the first agent and one of at least the first
and second contacts.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the postponing comprises postponing selection until at least
the second contact arrives at the contact center system and the second agent becomes available
for assignment.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the selecting comprises selecting, for assignment and
connection within the contact center system, the first contact and one of at least the first and
second agents, and the first agent and one of at least the first and second contacts.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the selecting comprises applying a behavioral pairing
strategy to at least some of the plurality agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
                                                  27

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040W01
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the selecting comprises applying a diagonal strategy to at
least some of the plurality agents and at least some of the plurality of contacts.
19.      At least one computer processor readable storage medium storing a computer program of
instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one
processor to execute a computer process for performing the method as recited in claim 1.
20.      At least one computer processor readable storage medium storing a computer program of
instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one
processor to execute a computer process for performing the method as recited in claim 5.
21. A method for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
         identifying, by at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center
system, a first contact;
         identifying, by the at least one computer processor, a first agent available for assignment
to the first contact;
         comparing, by the at least one computer processor, information about the first contact
with information about the first agent; and
         postponing, by the at least one computer processor, by a first period of delay, assignment
of the first agent and assignment of the first contact based on the comparison.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the first period of delay is at least thirty seconds.
                                                  28

                                                          Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040W01
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the first period of delay is at least two minutes.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the first period of delay is not more than thirty seconds.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the first period of delay is not more than two minutes.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the first period of delay ends after a second agent becomes
available for assignment or a second contact arrives at the contact center system.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein the first period of delay ends after at least two additional
agents become available for assignment or at least two additional contacts arrive at the contact
center system.
28. A system for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
        at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center system,
wherein the at least one computer processor is further configured to:
                identify a first contact;
                identify a first agent available for assignment to the first contact;
                compare information about the first contact with information about the first agent;
and
                postpone, by a first period of delay, assignment of the first agent and assignment
of the first contact based on the comparison.
                                                   29

                                                          Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040W01
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the first period of delay is at least thirty seconds.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein the first period of delay is at least two minutes.
31. The system of claim 28, wherein the first period of delay is not more than thirty seconds.
32. The system of claim 28, wherein the first period of delay is not more than two minutes.
33. The system of claim 28, wherein the first period of delay ends after a second agent becomes
available for assignment or a second contact arrives at the contact center system.
34. The system of claim 28, wherein the first period of delay ends after at least two additional
agents become available for assignment or at least two additional contacts arrive at the contact
center system.
35. An article of manufacture for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
        a non-transitory computer processor readable medium; and
        instructions stored on the medium;
        wherein the instructions are configured to be readable from the medium by at least one
computer processor configured to operate in the contact center system and thereby cause the at
least one computer processor to operate so as to:
                identify a first contact;
                identify a first agent available for assignment to the first contact;
                                                   30

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040W01
                compare information about the first contact with information about the first agent;
and
                postpone, by a first period of delay, assignment of the first agent and assignment
of the first contact based on the comparison.
36. The article of manufacture of claim 35, wherein the first period of delay is at least thirty
seconds.
37. The article of manufacture of claim 35, wherein the first period of delay is at least two
minutes.
38. The article of manufacture of claim 35, wherein the first period of delay is not more than two
minutes.
39. The article of manufacture of claim 35, wherein the first period of delay ends after a second
agent becomes available for assignment or a second contact arrives at the contact center system.
40. The article of manufacture of claim 35, wherein the first period of delay ends after at least
two additional agents become available for assignment or at least two additional contacts arrive
at the contact center system.
41. A method for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
                                                 31

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040W01
        determining, by at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact
center system, a minimum amount of agent choice;
        determining, by the at least one computer processor, a maximum amount of delay;
        postponing agent selection, by the at least one computer processor, until at least one of
the following conditions is satisfied:
                (a) the maximum amount of delay has elapsed; or
                (b) the minimum amount of agent choice has been reached; and
        selecting, by the at least one computer processor, an agent among one or more agents for
connection to an available contact within the contact center system.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the maximum amount of delay is less than 30 seconds.
43. The method of claim 41, wherein the minimum amount of agent choice is greater than three
available agents.
44. The method of claim 41, wherein selecting the agent comprises applying a behavioral pairing
strategy.
45. The method of claim 41, wherein the available contact is one contact of a plurality of
contacts waiting for assignment to an agent.
46. A method for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
                                                 32

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040W01
        determining, by at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact
center system, a minimum amount of contact choice;
        determining, by the at least one computer processor, a maximum amount of delay;
        postponing contact selection, by the at least one computer processor, until at least one of
the following conditions is satisfied:
                (a) the maximum amount of delay has elapsed; or
                (b) the minimum amount of contact choice has been reached; and
        selecting, by the at least one computer processor, a contact among one or more contacts
for connection to an available agent within the contact center system.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein the maximum amount of delay is less than 30 seconds.
48. The method of claim 46, wherein the minimum amount of contact choice is greater than three
contacts waiting for assignment.
49. The method of claim 46, wherein selecting the contact comprises applying a behavioral
pairing strategy.
50. The method of claim 46, wherein the available agent is one agent of a plurality of agents
waiting for assignment to a contact.
51. A method for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
                                                33

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                  Client Reference No.: P16040W01
        determining, by at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact
center system, a maximum amount of delay;
        determining, by the at least one computer processor, a first score of a first preferred
pairing between a first agent and a first contact;
        postponing pairing selection, by the at least one computer processor, until at least one of
the following conditions is satisfied:
                 (a) the maximum amount of delay has elapsed; or
                 (b) an arrival of at least a second agent or at least a second contact that results in
an emergence of a second preferred pairing better than the first preferred pairing; and
         selecting, by the at least one computer processor, the second preferred pairing for
connection within the contact center system.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein the maximum amount of delay is less than 30 seconds.
53. The method of claim 51, wherein determining the first and second preferred pairings
comprises applying a behavioral pairing strategy.
54. The method of claim 51, wherein arrival of the second agent and the second contact results in
the emergence of the second preferred pairing consisting of the second agent and the second
contact.
55. The method of claim 51, wherein arrival of the second agent results in the emergence of the
second preferred pairing consisting of the second agent and the first contact.
                                                   34

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                 Client Reference No.: P16040W01
56. The method of claim 51, wherein arrival of the second contact results in the emergence of the
second preferred pairing consisting of the second contact and an agent different from the first
agent that was already available.
57. A system for L3 pairing in a contact center system comprising:
        at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center system,
wherein the at least one computer processor is further configured to:
                determine a minimum amount of agent choice;
                determine a maximum amount of delay;
                postpone agent selection until at least one of the following conditions is satisfied:
                        (a) the maximum amount of delay has elapsed; or
                        (b) the minimum amount of agent choice has been reached; and
                select an agent among one or more agents for connection to an available contact
within the contact center system.
58. The system of claim 57, wherein the minimum amount of agent choice is greater than three
available agents.
59. The system of claim 57, wherein selecting the agent comprises applying a behavioral pairing
strategy.
                                                 35

                                                      Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                              Client Reference No.: P16040W01
60. The system of claim 57, wherein the available contact is one contact of a plurality of contacts
waiting for assignment to an agent.
61.     At least one computer processor readable storage medium storing a computer program of
instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one
processor to execute a computer process for performing the method as recited in claim 41.
62.     At least one computer processor readable storage medium storing a computer program of
instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one
processor to execute a computer process for performing the method as recited in claim 46.
63.     At least one computer processor readable storage medium storing a computer program of
instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one
processor to execute a computer process for performing the method as recited in claim 51.
64. A method for workforce management in a contact center system comprising:
        generating, by at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center
system, historical workforce data regarding an agent workforce capacity of the contact center
system; and
        initiating, by the at least one computer processor, an increase or decrease to an agent
workforce of the contact center system based at least in part on the historical workforce data to
increase an amount of choice among available agents or waiting contacts.
                                                36

                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040W01
65. The method of claim 64, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an increase in agent
surplus is expected.
66. The method of claim 64, wherein a decrease is initiated, and wherein an increase in contact
queue size is expected, and wherein an increase in contact center perfonnance is expected.
67. The method of claim 64, further comprising:
        increasing or decreasing, by the at least one computer processor, the agent workforce by a
first amount based on the initiated increase or decrease.
68. The method of claim 64, further comprising:
        generating, by the at least one computer processor, historical performance data regarding
performance of the contact center system,
        wherein the initiated increase or decrease to the agent workforce is based in part on the
historical performance data.
69. The method of claim 64, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an increased amount of
time spent in an LI state is expected.
70. The method of claim 64, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an increased amount of
time spent in an L2 state is expected.
71. A system for workforce management in a contact center system comprising:
                                                  37

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040W01
        at least one computer processor configured to operate in the contact center system,
wherein the at least one computer processor is further configured to:
                generate historical workforce data regarding an agent workforce capacity of the
contact center system; and
                initiate an increase or decrease to an agent workforce of the contact center system
based at least in part on the historical workforce data to increase an amount of choice among
available agents or waiting contacts.
72. The system of claim 71, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an increase in agent
surplus is expected.
73. The system of claim 71, wherein a decrease is initiated, and wherein an increase in contact
queue size is expected, and wherein an increase in contact center performance is expected.
74. The system of claim 71, wherein the at least one computer processor is further configured to:
        increase or decrease the agent workforce by a first amount based on the initiated increase
or decrease.
75. The system of claim 71, wherein the at least one computer processor is further configured to:
        generate historical performance data regarding performance of the contact center system,
        wherein the initiated increase or decrease to the agent workforce is based in part on the
historical performance data.
                                                  38

                                                         Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                                Client Reference No.: P16040W01
76. The system of claim 71, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an increased amount of
time spent in an LI state is expected.
77. The system of claim 71, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an increased amount of
time spent in an L2 state is expected.
78. An article of manufacture for workforce management in a contact center system comprising:
        a non-transitory computer processor readable medium; and
        instructions stored on the medium;
        wherein the instructions are configured to be readable from the medium by at least one
computer processor configured to operate in the contact center system and thereby cause the at
least one computer processor to operate so as to:
                generate historical workforce data regarding an agent workforce capacity of the
contact center system; and
                initiate an increase or decrease to an agent workforce of the contact center system
based at least in part on the historical workforce data to increase an amount of choice among
available agents or waiting contacts.
79. The article of manufacture of claim 78, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an
increase in agent surplus is expected.
                                                  39

                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 2211471.00356WO1
                                                               Client Reference No.: P16040W01
80. The article of manufacture of claim 78, wherein a decrease is initiated, and wherein an
increase in contact queue size is expected, and wherein an increase in contact center performance
is expected.
81. The article of manufacture of claim 78, wherein the at least one computer processor is further
caused to operate so as to:
        increase or decrease the agent workforce by a first amount based on the initiated increase
or decrease.
82. The article of manufacture of claim 78, wherein the at least one computer processor is further
caused to operate so as to:
        generate historical performance data regarding performance of the contact center system,
        wherein the initiated increase or decrease to the agent workforce is based in part on the
historical performance data.
83. The article of manufacture of claim 78, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an
increased amount of time spent in an LI state is expected.
84. The article of manufacture of claim 78, wherein an increase is initiated, and wherein an
increased amount of time spent in an L2 state is expected.
                                                40

<U+2701><U+2702>
<U+2701><U+2702>
<U+2701><U+2702>
<U+2701><U+2702>
<U+2701><U+2702>
<U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
