A luggage capable of being used in child carrying mode, the luggage
including: a top, a bottom, a front, a rear and opposing sides, the
dimension between the front and the rear is longer than the dimension
between the opposing sides; a first wheel means located in the front to
enable wheeling of the luggage in normal mode; a second wheel means
located in the rear and, in conjunction with the first wheel means, enable
wheeling of the luggage in child carrying mode; and a child seat foldable
within the luggage in normal mode and unfoldable in child carrying mode
to be positioned on or above the top of the luggage; a hinged lid, hinged
on the front or rear shorter sides wherein, in child carrying mode, the
luggage lid forms a structural support for a child seat.

                  Figure 1
                           1        23
      21    32               24
   31                                       20
                                         30
   33     029
                                       34
                                       2
                                             35
                                        28
       S0
                                  6
                                     26
25
5
                         4      7
               27

   COMBINATION LUGGAGE AND CHILD CARRIER
   Field
   The present invention relates to a luggage apparatus capable of being used as a child carrier. In some
   embodiments, the invention provides a luggage apparatus which is light enough to qualify as cabin luggage
 5 or carry-on luggage for an aircraft but which is able to transport an infant or child outside the aircraft.
    Background
   It is well known that carers of infants and young children experience difficulties when travelling on aircraft.
   Usually there is a significant distance to walk between an airline check-in counter and the gate at which the
   designated aircraft departs. At the end of a flight, there is usually a significant distance to walk between the
10 arrival gate and the luggage carousel or airport exit.
   Travelers without young children may cope with these distances by using wheeled cabin baggage. However,
   travelers with young children may need to carry the children as well as pulling or pushing wheeled luggage.
   Especially in the case of a single traveler it can be very burdensome to transport the carry-on luggage and
   carry a child or infant.
15 A child stroller can be used, but child strollers are usually large and cumbersome. They typically do not fold
   down sufficiently to fit within carry-on flight luggage dimensions. Therefore child strollers are required to
   be transported in the hold as oversize luggage, in some situations adding to the cost of flying. They may also
   be damaged or soiled when stowed or transferred.
   There have been attempts to address these difficulties. Some solutions involve a perch for the child on top
20 of the luggage. In this type of solution, the luggage has a pair of wheels at its base for normal use and a
   second set of wheels which protrudes rearwardly when transporting a child, in order to maintain balance.
   Because the luggage has its longer dimension almost perpendicular to or angled towards the ground, when
   a child is riding on the luggage the child is high off the ground. The centre of gravity of the luggage is raised
   moved to the rear or beyond the rear of the luggage. There is a danger of the child falling off or the luggage
25 tipping over. In addition, the rearwardly-projecting wheels can interfere with the traveler's stride when
   pushing the luggage and cause tripping.
   Some solutions reduce the storage capacity of the luggage. However, travelling with children or infants
   involves the transport of baby supplies which may be needed in flight, so adequate luggage storage is
   required.
30 The prior art does not cater for the carriage of infants, who need to be transported in a reclining position
   for the infant's safety, preferably at an angle of less than 40 degrees to the horizontal. Further, the prior art
   does not provide a luggage apparatus versatile enough to transport an infant at first and later the growing
   child.
   There is a need for a luggage apparatus, versatile enough to carry an infant or a growing child, which is
35 stable and which still has adequate room for storage. There is also a need for such luggage that is small
   enough and light enough to qualify as cabin baggage. There is further a need for such luggage to have the
   ability to carry an infant or young child so that a user may face the infant or young child if desired.
   The prior art fails to address the need for simple one-handed easy deployment of the seat and stroller
   components. A parent travelling alone typically would require their child to be held in on arm for safety
40 while managing the stroller deployment and folding away for storing.
   It is an object of the present invention to provide a luggage apparatus which fulfils the some or all of the
   above needs at least to an extent or which provides a useful alternative.
                                                             1

   Summary of Invention
   Accordingly, the invention provides a luggage apparatus capable of being used in normal mode and
   alternately in child carrying mode, the luggage apparatus including:
         -     a top, a bottom, a front, a rear and opposing sides, the dimension between the front and the rear
 5            being longer than the dimension between the opposing sides;
         -     a first wheel means located in the vicinity of the front and adapted to enable wheeling of the
              luggage apparatus in normal mode;
         -    a second wheel means located in the vicinity of the rear and, in conjunction with the first wheel
              means, adapted to enable wheeling of the luggage apparatus in child carrying mode; and
10       -    a child seat which is foldable within the luggage apparatus in normal mode and unfoldable in child
              carrying mode to be positioned on or above the top of the luggage apparatus;
   wherein, in child carrying mode, the longer dimension is substantially parallel to the ground supporting the
   luggage apparatus and the unfolded child seat is positioned so that the centre of gravity of the child seat
   and any child thereon is substantially between the front and the rear.
15 It is preferred that the luggage apparatus of the invention has a handle, which may be extendable in either
   or both the normal mode and the child carrying mode. Optionally, the handle may be storable against the
   top or sides of the luggage apparatus. The handle may be detachable. Preferably the handle is mounted
   towards the rear of the luggage apparatus, in proximity to the second wheel means.
   In the embodiments described below in connection with the drawings, the handle lies parallel to the top of
20 the apparatus. However, it is within the scope of the invention that the handle is configured differently,
   including that the handle is at an oblique angle to the top.
   In another embodiment the handle can be fitted inside the lid. Preferably telescopic. Where the handle
   rotates in conjunction with the lid. An additional handle can be fitted for carting when in normal mode.
   In an embodiment, the child seat is independent of the handle. This can be advantageous, because the
25 handle may be used in different configurations, being able to push the luggage apparatus from the front or
   from the rear in child carrying mode. When transporting an infant, it is often desirable for the carer to be
   facing the infant. An embodiment of the invention in which the luggage apparatus can be pushed from the
   front enables this. A further advantage of having the handle independent of the child seat is that it can be
   easier to allow for variable angles of the seat and the handle position.
30 Yet a further advantage of having the child seat independent of the handle is the ability to use the luggage
   apparatus as a child seat when not travelling, since the handle may be left in its stowed positon while the
   child seat may be used in a stationary position, for example, for feeding the child or infant.
   In a preferred embodiment, the child seat is connected to the Lid. The lid forms a structural component of
   the seat frame. The advantage of this is greatly reducing component weight and simple deployment of the
35 seat component.
   In a preferred embodiment a hard-shell lid and collapsible struts are used to create a sturdy frame. A
   structure suitable as a seat support. The open and close rotation of the lid will deploy and retract the seat
   component with one motion of the lid.
   In an embodiment the lid will be secure closed with a catch or suitable securing mechanism. Catch to
40 maybe released with a press of a button.
                                                             2

   Preferably the struts of the seat support will of a lock position when deployed. A simple release of the lock
   could be driven from the single lid catch release button.
   In an embodiment of the luggage apparatus the rotation of the lid could drive the deployment and
   retraction of the extra wheels used for stroller mode.
 5 The luggage apparatus of the invention may have the top, bottom, front, rear and sides made of any
   suitable material or combination of materials, including woven or non-woven fabric or hard shell panels or
   moulding. The lid would require a ridged material for structural seat support or a soft material containing a
   ridged frame.
   Preferably, when in normal mode, the luggage apparatus of the invention may be sized and weighted to
10 qualify as cabin baggage for most airlines. Most airlines will accept as cabin baggage a bag having linear
   dimensions totaling 115 cm, for example made up of 40 cm x 50 cm x 25 cm, or 36 cm x 56 cm x 23cm. The
   weight should not exceed 7 kg. If it is necessary, the child seat may be detachable from the luggage
   apparatus to keep under the weight limit.
   The first wheel means may be a single wheel or a plurality of wheels. It is preferred that there are two
15 wheels, spaced apart at the front of the luggage apparatus and located close to the bottom of the luggage
   apparatus when in child carrying mode. While the first wheel means may be swiveling or castor wheels, it is
   preferred that they are fixed wheels aligned with the opposing sides of the luggage apparatus.
   The second wheel means may be a single wheel or a plurality of wheels. It is preferred that there are two
   wheels, spaced apart at the rear of the luggage apparatus when in child carrying mode. It Is especially
20 preferred that the second wheel means are castor wheels and that these are lockable in two ways, first so
   as to limit them to forward and rearward travel only and secondly for braking.
   In one embodiment, the second wheel means are designed to retract or fold against or within the bottom
   of the luggage apparatus when in normal mode. For this purpose, the second wheel means may be
   mounted on pivot joints or similar.
25 In the embodiment which includes a handle, the handle may be connected to a mechanism which causes
   the second wheel means to extend or unfold when the handle is placed in a position suitable for use in child
   carrying mode.
   In the embodiment which includes a handle inside the lid. The lid may be connected to a mechanism which
   causes the second wheel means to extend or unfold when the lid is opened to child carrying mode.
30 The foldable child seat for use with the apparatus of the invention may take any suitable form. Preferably,
   the child seat is capable of use for an infant in an appropriately reclined position and for an older child,
   when in a less reclined position.
   It is preferred that the foldable child seat includes a harness to ensure that the infant or child is retained in
   place when the luggage apparatus is used in child carrying mode. The harness may be attached to the child
35 seat as required. The harness may be similar to a four or five point harness used with child safety restraints
   for vehicles. Other harnesses are within the scope of this option of the invention.
   The child seat may be foldable in any suitable way. Some examples are set out below and described in the
   accompanying drawings. It is preferred that the child seat, once folded, is stowed in the luggage apparatus.
   In a preferred embodiment, the folded child seat is stored in a first compartment close to the top of the
40 luggage apparatus. The first compartment may have a closure such as a lid which forms the top of the
   luggage apparatus in the normal mode. The lid may be joined to the luggage apparatus by a hinge, one or
   more latches, a sliding clasp fastener, a combination of two or more of these or other suitable arrangement.
   It is preferred that the folded seat is configured so that the first compartment in which it is stowed is
   relatively shallow and that the remainder of the space within the luggage apparatus includes a second
                                                            3

   compartment available for storage. If desired, the second compartment may include a fixed or movable
    panel to separate the first compartment from the second compartment.
   The foldable child seat may be permanently attached to the luggage apparatus or it may be removable. If
   the child seat is removed, the luggage apparatus may be used as conventional luggage. If the total weight of
 5 the luggage apparatus and the child seat exceeds an airline's allowance for cabin baggage, the child seat
    may be removed so that the luggage apparatus complies. In this instance, the child seat may be stored
   separately in the aircraft locker.
   The foldable child seat may be formed with two or more parts which can fold relatively to each other, so as
   to fit within the first compartment when folded. In one example, the child seat may have a seating portion,
10 a lower backrest portion and an upper backrest portion. A frame may support the lower and upper backrest
    portions in the unfolded configuration, locking into place. To fold the child seat, the lock is released, the
   seating portion is folded inwardly towards the lower backrest portion and the upper backrest is folded
   forwardly towards the lower backrest portion, resulting in a compact unit which can be stowed in the first
   compartment (if present). The procedure is reversed to unfold the child seat.
15 The child seat maybe angle may be adjusted by a variable connection between the seat struts and the Lid.
   The lid angle could be utilised to adjust the seat reline position.
   A preferred embodiment can see set of frames connected to the main supports struts that is adjustable and
   lockable in relation to the main support strut lid structure to create varying seating positions.
   The backrest may be extendable for older children, for example by including telescoping elements in the
20 frame.
   The child seat may have suitable covering and cushioning for the comfort of the infant or child.
    Brief Description of Drawings
    Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of examples only, with
    reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
25  Figure 1 shows a front perspective view of an embodiment of the luggage apparatus of the invention with
   the child seat open in Stroller mode. Without seat webbing for the purpose for showing under lying
   structure.
    Figure 2 shows the embodiment of Figure 1 with the seat webbing fitted.
   Figure 3 shows a front perspective view of a handle in position for infant facing stroller pushing. The
30 exposed seat structure in reclined position. The seat headrest retracted.
    Figure 4 shows the Figure 1 embodiment after the child seat and lid has been folded for stowing or carrying
   the case.
    Figure 5 shows the Figure 1 embodiment with the seat folded into the lid and the lid opened for access to
   the case storage compartment.
35 Figure 6 shows an alternative embodiment with the child seat unfolded and an alternative placement of the
   stroller handle telescopic from inside the lid.
    Figure 7 shows figure 6 embodiment as a lower perspective view of the base of the case . The caster wheels
   shown in retracted position.
   Figure 8 shows the embodiment of Figure 6 from the side with the lid, handle, caster wheels and seat fully
40 closed.
                                                            4

   Figure 9 is a side view for figure 6 or figure 1 embodiments, with seat and handle folded away but with a
   secondary handle for carting the case.
   Figure 10 is a perspective side view for figure 6 with the lid and seat in a reversed relationship to the wheel
   configuration.
 5
   Description of Embodiments
   It will be appreciated that not all the drawings are of the same scale.
   Referring first to Figures 1, luggage apparatus 1 has a top 3, a bottom 4, a front 5, a rear 6 and opposing
   sides 7 and 8. The distance between front 5 and rear 6 is longer than the distance between opposing sides 7
10 and 8.
   First wheels 27 are means located at front 5, in recesses. Wheels 27 are aligned with opposing sides 7 and 8
   and are used to enable wheeling of luggage apparatus 1 in normal mode, when luggage apparatus 1 is
   transported with front 40 being closest to the ground.
   Second wheels 26 are located at each side of rear 6 and are swivelling castor wheels for easy maneuvering.
15 Alternately, the positioning of the first wheels 27 and the second wheels 26 can be reversed so that the first
   wheels 27 are at the rear 6 and the second wheels 26 at the front 5. See figure 10.
   Handle 22 in this embodiment pivots at pivot point 28 to lie around opposing sides 20 and 43 and front 5
   when luggage 1 is in the normal mode. Handle 22 may be used to pull or push luggage apparatus 1 in the
   normal mode, by pivoting handle 22 at pivot point 28. Handle 22 can be extended or contracted
20 telescopically. In Figure 1, handle 22 is shown extended in child carrying mode. For use in normal mode,
   handle 22 may be used without extension or contraction after having been pivoted at pivot point 28, or if
   desired handle 22 may be adjusted for length to suit the user, by extending it or contracting it as desired.
   As an alternate arrangement to that described above, a handle 38 may be configured to slide along (or
   within) a track inside lid 21, and the lid 21 has a pivot action to locate it into the child carrying position as
25 shown in Figure 7.
   Handle 22 also has buttons 24 for release of second wheel means as described later below.
   In this embodiment, luggage apparatus 1 has a first compartment 45 having a closure 47, attached to
   luggage apparatus 1 by a sliding clasp fastener 46. Closure 47 may be completely detachable, if sliding clasp
   fastener surrounds closure 47. However, the embodiment as shown in Figure 5 has a hinge 48 attaching
30 closure 47 to luggage apparatus 1.
   Child seat 49 is stowed in first compartment 47 when luggage apparatus 1 is used in normal mode. Child
   seat 49 is mounted on panel 25 and may be fixed to panel 25 or detachable from panel 25. Alternately, child
   seat 49 may be fixed to or detachable from first lid 21.
   Child seat 49 is designed so that when folded, as described below in more detail, it is contained within first
35 compartment 47. Second compartment 45 is available for use to store other items as desired, such as
   diapers, clothing, baby bottles, etc.
   An addition door or opening can be fitted on rear 6 of compartment (or sides 7, 8 or font 5) 47 for access to
   storage when in child carry mode.
   Child seat 49 has seating portion 37, lower backrest portion 50 and upper backrest portion 51. Side panels
40 52 help to retain a child in child seat 49. Part of frame 52 supports lower and upper backrest and headrest
                                                            5

   portions 51 in the unfolded configuration shown in Figure 2, where frame 52 has been unfolded at pivot
   points 34 and locked into place.
   The child seat 49 is constructed with collapsible lower struts 29 and upper struts 30. Upper struts 30 are
   connected to Lid 21 at slide able connection 20. Lower struts 29 are connected to floor 25 at point 36. The
 5 point 36 could alternatively be able to slide for seat recline adjustment.
   Seat 49 webbing 37 are attached to frames lower backrest frame 31 and upper headrest frame 32. Frame
   lower backrest 31 is connected to joint 34. The joint 34 is rotational and lockable in different positions for
   various recline seating positions.
   To fold child seat 49, the locks are released, seating portion 50 is folded inwardly towards lower seat
10 portion 53 and upper backrest portion 51 is folded forwardly towards lower backrest portion 50. Upper
   strut 30 is folded around pivot points 34, resulting in a compact unit which can be stowed in first
   compartment 47. The procedure is reversed to unfold child seat 49.
   In Figure 2, upper backrest portion 51 is shown in an extended configuration for use by an older child, by
   making use of telescoping elements (not shown) in frame 31.
15 Child seat 49 has a cushioned covering 37 which covers seat portion 33, lower and upper backrest portions
   50 and side panels 52.
   It will be noted that child seat 49 is located on luggage apparatus 1 with its longer dimension approximately
   parallel to the ground. In this configuration, luggage apparatus 1 has increased stability, compared to prior
   art where the luggage has its longer dimension almost perpendicular to or angled towards the ground.
20 Wheels 26 do not protrude to any significant extent beyond rear 18 and do not represent a tripping hazard.
   Further, child seat 49 is low to the ground and positioned on luggage apparatus 1 so that the centre of
   gravity of child seat 49 and any child thereon is substantially between front 5 and rear 6 (labeled in Figure
   1). Child seat 49 is stably supported on wheels 27 and 26.
   In this embodiment, child seat 49 is supported by struts 29,30 and lid 21 is not supported by or attached to
25 handle 22. Handle 22 may be adjusted as to height and angle to suit tall or short travelers, without
   interfering with child seat 49 or its recline angle. If desired, a further supporting means (not shown) may be
   adjustably connected to strut 29 on either side to provide additional support to child seat 49.
   Since child seat 49 can be folded into a neat unit stowable within first compartment 47, there is plenty of
   room for storage in second compartment 45.
30 Although the first embodiment described above (and the second embodiment described below) show the
   child seat facing front 5, it is within the scope of the invention that the child seat may be positioned to face
   the rear 6 so that the infant or child is in full view of the carer. Alternately, as shown in the embodiment in
   Figure 3 described below, the infant or child may face the carer by adjusting configuration of the handle.
   Access to second compartment 45 when luggage apparatus is in child carrying mode may be provided as
35 required. For example, a flap closable by a sliding clasp fastener may be located in second compartment 45
   at front 5, rear 6 or side 7, or side 8 (not visible).
   Turning now to the second embodiment in Figures 6, luggage apparatus 2 has hard shell panels and has a
   top 60, a bottom 65, a front 61, a rear 62 and side 63. The opposing side to side 64 is not visible in the
   Figures but is parallel to side 63. For convenience below, the opposing side will be referred to as side 64,
40 although not labelled in the Figures. The distance between front 61 and rear 62 is longer than the distance
   between opposing sides 63 and 64.
   First wheels means 66 are located at front 61, in recesses 68, only one of which is visible in Figures 6.
   Wheels 66 are aligned with opposing sides 63 and 64 and are used to enable wheeling of luggage apparatus
   2 in normal mode, when luggage apparatus 2 is transported with front 61 being closest to the ground.
                                                              6

   Second wheel assembly 67 are located at each side of rear 62 and are swiveling castor wheels, as in the first
   embodiment.
    Handle 38 lies substantial parallel to top surface of lid 60 when luggage 2 is in the normal mode and is to be
   carried. Handle 38 is telescopic and retracts into lid 60. Alternately, handle 30 may be used to pull or push
 5 luggage apparatus 2 in the normal mode, with rear wheels 67 extended. Handle 38 can be extended or
   contracted telescopically.
    It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications and variations may be made to the
   embodiments described herein without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.
    In an alternative embodiment a handle 70 figure 10 can be fitted for use in carting mode when handle 69 is
10 stowed.
    Industrial Applicability
   The luggage apparatus of the invention provides an efficient and versatile system for transporting children
   and luggage, especially applicable to airports and flights.
   The luggage apparatus can be configured to carry either an infant or a child on a stable wheeled platform,
15 facing away from the person pushing the apparatus or facing the person. The child seat of the luggage
   apparatus may be reclined to cater for infants.
    Even when used to transport a child or infant, the luggage apparatus of the invention can be configured to
   have substantial storage space for travel needs, while qualifying for use as cabin baggage with the majority
20 of airlines.
   The luggage apparatus and seat can be easily opened ready for use and stowed away with only one hand.
                                                             7

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims:
 1.       A luggage apparatus capable of being used in normal mode and alternately in child
          carrying mode, the luggage apparatus including:
          -  a top, a bottom, a front, a rear and opposing sides, the dimension between the
             front and the rear being longer than the dimension between the opposing sides;
        -    a first wheel means located in the vicinity of the front and adapted to enable
             wheeling of the luggage apparatus in normal mode;
        -    a second wheel means located in the vicinity of the rear and, in conjunction with
             the first wheel means, adapted to enable wheeling of the luggage apparatus in
             child carrying mode; and
        -    a child seat which is foldable within the luggage apparatus in normal mode and
              unfoldable in child carrying mode to be positioned on or above the top of the
              luggage apparatus;
        -    a hinged lid, hinged on the front or rear shorter sides;
        wherein, in child carrying mode, the luggage lid forms a structural support for a child
        seat.
2.      The luggage apparatus of claim 1, wherein, the luggage apparatus of claim 1 and 2
        the luggage lid is rotatable and drives the opening and collapse of the child seat
        between normal mode and child carrying mode.
3.      The luggage apparatus of claim 1 and 2, wherein, the lid is connected to a
        mechanism which causes secondary wheel means to extend or unfold when the lid is
        placed in a position suitable for use in child carrying mode.
4.      The luggage apparatus of claim 1 to 3, wherein, a handle lies substantially plannar to
        the lid top surface and can extend from to form a push or pull device in child carry
        mode.
5       The luggage apparatus of claim 1 and 2, wherein, the lid angle adjusts the seat
        recline angle.

                                       Figure 1
                                                  <U+2736>                23
<removed-date>
                             32                       24
                        21
<removed-apn>         31                                                         20
                                                                         30
                                                                        29
                   33
                                                                        34
    8
                                                                        22
                                                                              35
    36
                                                                        28
                                                               6
                                                                   26
              25
              5
                                              4            7
                                  27

                              Figure 2
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2736>
                         50        51
<removed-apn>
                   37
                    52
              53
                                                  34
                                             49

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  <U+2736>        Figure 3

              <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                           3
23
                                       <U+2736>     Figure 4
     7
         22

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     45
          48
                            47
                                          Figure 5
                                   <U+2736>
41
                    46

                                      Figure 6
<removed-date>
                             2                                  69
<removed-apn>
                                                                60
              64
                                                           62
                                                                67
                                                      63
                   61
                        68
                                 66
                                                 65

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
       2
                      Figure 7

<removed-apn>       <removed-date>
             2
                               Figure 8

                                   Figure 9
<removed-date>
                              70
<removed-apn>
                    2
              PRODUCED BY AN AUTODESK EDUCATIONAL PRODUCT

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
   2
                           Figure 10

