Abstract
The present invention relates to a kit for administration of medicaments. The kit comprises a
box (1) that contains at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and a video device (3).
The video device (3) may be configured to provide visual or audio-visual instructions for using
the medicament delivery device (4, 4a). Both the at least one medicament delivery device (4,
4a) and the video device (3) are removably attached to the box (1). Removal of the at least one
medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) from the box (1) allows carrying the
at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) without the need to
carry the entire box (1). As carrying the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the
video device (3) without the box (1) is much more comfortable as compared to carrying the en
tire bulky box (1) it is more likely as compared to the prior art that the patient will indeed carry
the medicament delivery device (4, 4a) at all times so that the medicament delivery device (4,
4a) is available when needed. Moreover, as the video device can be removed from the bulky
box (1) it is more likely as compared to the prior art that the patient will also carry the video de
vice (3). Thus, the likelihood of improper use of the medicament delivery device (4, 4a) is de
creased as compared to the prior art.

     2/5
2F
  2b
                4a
         Fig. 2

Kit for administration of medicaments
Self-administered medicament delivery devices, such as, for example pre-filled medical injec
tors, inhalers, transdermal delivery devices and the like are often used as a part of a patient's
medication regimen. For example, known self-administered medicament delivery devices can
be used as a part of a patient's emergency care regimen. Emergency care regimens can in
clude, for example, using an auto-injector to rapidly self-administer a medicament in response to
an allergic reaction, for example epinephrine, or for the treatment of other emergency conditions
as for example poisoning. Known self-administered medicament delivery devices can also be
used as a part of a patient's chronic care regimen. Chronic care regimens can include, for ex
ample, using a pen injector to self-administer a medicament according to a prescribed plan.
Examples of chronic care regimens can include, for example, the injection of insulin, the injec
tion of human growth hormone (HGH), erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA), Interferons and
other chronic therapies, or the like. Furthermore, self-administered medicament delivery devices
can also be used for preventive/prophylactic therapies. Examples of preventive/prophylactic
therapies include certain vaccines, such as an influenza vaccine.
To actuate some known medicament delivery devices, the user may be required to execute a
series of operations. For example, to actuate some known auto-injectors, the user must remove
a protective cap, remove a locking device, place the auto-injector in a proper position against
the body and then press a button to actuate the auto-injector. Failure to complete these opera
tions properly can result in an incomplete injection and/or injection into an undesired location of
the body.
The likelihood of improper use of known medicament delivery devices can be compounded by
the nature of the user and/or the circumstances under which such devices are used. For exam
ple, many users are not trained medical professionals and may have never been trained in the
operation of such devices. Moreover, in certain situations, the user may not be the patient, and
may therefore have no experience with the medicament delivery device. Similarly, because
some known medicament delivery devices are configured to be used relatively infrequently in
response to an allergic reaction or the like, even those users familiar with the device and/or who
have been trained may not be well practiced at operating the device. Finally, such devices often
have to be used during an emergency situation, during which even experienced and/or trained
users may be subject to confusion, panic and/or the physiological effects of the condition requir
ing treatment. It is essential that the person who needs treatment can calm down and stop any
                                                  1

panic by quick and safe administration of the required medication. It should also be possible
that people who become aware of the emergency situation can help the patient. In a best case
scenario even elderly people and children should be in the position to help the patient.
It has been suggested in US 9,278,177 B2 that the likelihood of improper use of known medic
ament delivery devices can be substantially reduced if a medicament delivery device is provided
together with an output device that provides an audio-visual output via a speaker and an LCD
screen showing step-by-step instructions for using the medicament delivery device.
US 9,278,177 B2 suggests that a medicament delivery device and an output device are provid
ed together as a medical system in form of a box that contains both the medicament delivery
device and the output device. However, according to the system suggested by US 9,278,177 B2
the patient has to carry the entire box in order to be able to receive the audio-visual instructions
for using the medicament delivery device.
However, this is disadvantageous because such a box is bulky and carrying it is inconvenient
and undesirable. Accordingly, the patient may not carry the medicament delivery device at all
times so that the medicament delivery device may not be available when needed. Furthermore,
the patient may remove the medicament delivery device from the box in order to carry only the
medicament delivery device and to avoid carrying the bulky box. However, in such a case the
audio-visual instructions for using the medicament delivery device may not be available when
needed so that the likelihood of improper use of the medicament delivery device is increased.
The problems of the prior art are solved by the subject-matter of the patent claims. The prob
lems are in particular solved by a kit comprising a box (1) containing at least one medicament
delivery device (4, 4a) and a video device (3), wherein both the at least one medicament deliv
ery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) are removably attached to the box (1).
The video device is a device for playing a video. The term "video" as used herein refers to a
series of images which are sequentially presented to relay visual instructions for using the me
dicament delivery device. The rate at which the images are sequentially presented is not espe
cially limited. The images may be sequentially presented at a rate that causes the viewer to per
ceive the visual instructions for using the medicament delivery device as a motion picture. That
is, the rate at which the images are presented may be a rate that causes the viewer to perceive
the visual instructions for using the medicament delivery device as a continuously moving im
age. Alternatively, the rate may be such that the visual instructions for using the medicament
delivery device is presented as a slide show. That is, the rate at which the images are present
                                                   2

ed may be such that the viewer perceives the moment at which an image is replaced by the
subsequent image in the series. In examples where the series is presented as a slide show, the
presentation of the sequence may be automatic and/or involve user input to effect replacement
of an image by the subsequent or previous image in the series.
The kit of the present invention comprises a box (1). The box (1) is useful for compactly combin
ing the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3). Suitable is in
principle any kind of box (1) that is large enough for containing the at least one medicament
delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3). The box (1) is preferably made from a robust
material in order to prevent damage to the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a)
and/or the video device (3) by external forces. Preferred materials are selected from the group
consisting of paperboard, plastics and metal.
Preferably, the kit comprises a video access means (11) in addition to the video device. The
video access means can be used to access a training video comprising visual instructions (vid
eo instructions) for using the medicament delivery device. As discussed above, the training vid
eo may comprise a moving picture, or a slide show. Preferably, the training video comprises a
moving picture. The video instructions are preferably step-by-step instructions for using the me
dicament delivery device (4, 4a).
The video device may be for displaying a different video to the training video. For example, the
video device may be for displaying a video in which the rate at which the images are presented
is such that the viewer perceives the moment at which an image is replaced by the subsequent
image in the series, and the training video may be displayed at a rate that causes the viewer to
perceive the visual instructions for using the medicament delivery device as a motion picture.
In embodiments including the video access means (11), the box (1) is large enough for contain
ing the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a), the video device (3) and the video ac
cess means (11).
In some embodiments, the video access means comprises a graphical representation contain
ing information relating to the video instructions for using the medicament delivery device (4,
4a). Preferably, the graphical representation represents data that describes a reference to a
location where the training video can be used. In some embodiments, the reference to a loca
tion is a Uniform Resource Identifier. For example, the Uniform Resource Identifier may be a
Uniform Resource Locator that references a web page (a "web address").
                                                  3

In some embodiments, the graphical representation comprises a barcode. The barcode may be
a two-dimensional (2D) barcode. That is, the barcode may be a matrix barcode. Preferably, the
barcode is a Quick Response code (QR code). In these embodiments, the barcode represents
data that describes a reference to a location where the video instructions can be viewed. Pref
erably, the reference is a URI. Preferably, the URI is a URL for a web page where the training
video can be viewed (that is, the URI is an address for a web page).
The graphical representation is machine readable. In some embodiments, the graphical repre
sentation can be read by a mobile device (for example, a mobile phone). By scanning the
graphical representation, the mobile device can obtain the information relating to the video in
structions for using the medicament delivery device.
In some embodiments, the video access means comprises a data storage device that contains
a video comprising video instructions for using the medicament delivery device. The data stor
age device can be any type of data storage device. It may incorporate electronic, magnetic, op
tical, and/or other types of storage media. For example, in some embodiments the data storage
device is an optical disc. In some other embodiments, the data storage device is a solid state
memory device, such as a memory card. Preferably, the data storage device is a USB drive. In
these embodiments, the data storage device contains video data.
In some embodiments, the data storage device (for example, the USB drive) only contains a
training video comprising video instructions for using the medicament delivery device.
Alternatively, the data storage device may additionally comprise a player for playing the training
video comprising video instructions for using the medicament delivery device. The player may
be a piece of hardware or a software program for playing video data. In these embodiments, the
data storage device may be encoded with one or more programs that, when executed on one or
more processors, causes the training video comprising video instructions to be displayed.
The data storage device (11) may comprise an integrated physical interface for communicating
data to a computer.
By providing the video access means (11), in addition to the video device (3), the kit can provide
a user with even more options as to how to view the video instructions. In this way, the kit can
provide improved user convenience. In addition, the video access means can provide a failsafe,
in case the video device malfunctions. This can reduce the risk of improper use of the medica
ment delivery device.
                                                 4

Preferably, the video instructions comprise audio-visual instructions for using the medicament
delivery device.
Preferably, the box (1) of the present invention is closable. Thus, the box (1) is preferably re
versibly switchable from an open state to a closed state and from a closed state to an open
state. Preferably, the box (1) comprises a lid (2) configured for closing the box (1). Preferably,
the lid (2) is movable between an open position, in which access to the at least one medicament
delivery device (4, 4a) and to the video device (3) in the box (1) is possible, and a closed posi
tion, in which access to the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and to the video
device (3) in the box (1) is prevented by the lid (2). Optionally, in the closed position, access to
the video access means in the box (1) is also prevented by the lid (2). Preferably, the lid (2) is
movable between the open position and the closed position via a hinge that connects the lid (2)
to the corpus of the box. Preferably, the lid (2) comprises closing means (2a) for fixing the lid (2)
in the closed position by detachably attaching the lid (2) to the corpus of the box (1). Preferably,
the closing means (2a) are located on the opposite side of the hinge. Preferably, the closing
means (2a) are configured for interaction with corresponding closing means on the corpus of
the box (1) so that the closing means (2a) on the lid (2) and the corresponding closing means
on the corpus of the box (1) form a closing mechanism. Preferred closing mechanisms are se
lected from the group consisting of magnetic locks, zip fasteners and hook-and-loop fasteners.
The box (1) contains at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a). Preferably, the box (1)
contains exactly two medicament delivery devices (4, 4a), preferably a first medicament delivery
device (4) and a second medicament delivery device (4a). Preferably, the first medicament de
livery device (4) and the second medicament delivery device (4a) are interchangeable. Prefera
bly, the medicament delivery devices (4, 4a) of the invention are configured for self
administration of medicaments. Preferred medicament delivery devices (4, 4a) are selected
from the group consisting of pre-filled medical injectors, auto-injectors, inhalers, and transder
mal delivery devices.
Preferably, the medicament delivery device (4, 4a) comprises at least one active ingredient.
Preferred active ingredients are selected from the group consisting of epinephrine, insulin, hu
man growth hormone (HGH), erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA), interferons and vaccines,
such as an influenza vaccine. More preferably, the active ingredient is selected from the group
consisting of epinephrine, insulin, human growth hormone (HGH) and erythropoiesis-stimulating
agents (ESA).
                                                   5

The box (1) also contains a video device (3). The video device (3) is preferably configured to
provide visual or audio-visual instructions for using the medicament delivery device (4, 4a). Au
dio-visual instructions are preferred. The instructions are preferably step-by-step instructions for
using the medicament delivery device (4, 4a). Instructions for using the medicament delivery
device (4, 4a) are useful for reducing the likelihood of improper use of the medicament delivery
device (4, 4a).
The kit may comprise a means for initiating playback of the instructions for using the medica
ment delivery device by the video device when the box is open. Preferably, the kit comprises a
means for automatically initiating playback of the instructions for using the medicament delivery
device by the video device when the box is opened. For example, the kit may comprise a sen
sor arranged to detect opening of the box and a controller configured to control the video device
to play the visual or audio-visual instructions in response to a signal from the sensor indicating
that the box has been opened.
Preferably, the video device (3) is comparably small. A comparably small video device (3) can
be conveniently carried. Preferably, the size of the video device (3) is comparable to the size of
the medicament delivery device (4, 4a). This allows that the video device (3) and the medica
ment delivery device (4, 4a) can be conveniently carried together. Preferably, the length of the
video device (3) is at most 200%, more preferably at most 150%, more preferably at most 125%
more preferably at most 110% of the length of the medicament delivery device (4, 4a). Prefera
bly, the width of the video device (3) is at most 200%, more preferably at most 150%, more
preferably at most 125% more preferably at most 110% of the width of the medicament delivery
device (4, 4a). Preferably, the thickness of the video device (3) is at most 200%, more prefera
bly at most 150%, more preferably at most 125% more preferably at most 110% of the thickness
of the medicament delivery device (4, 4a). Preferably, the length of the video device (3) is at
most 20 cm, more preferably at most 15 cm, more preferably at most 12 cm, more preferably at
most 10 cm. Preferably, the width of the video device (3) is at most 10 cm, more preferably at
most 8 cm, more preferably at most 6 cm, more preferably at most 5 cm. Preferably, the thick
ness of the video device (3) is at most 2 cm, more preferably at most 1.5 cm, more preferably at
most 1.2 cm, more preferably at most 1 cm, more preferably at most 0.8 cm, more preferably at
most 0.5 cm, more preferably at most 0.2 cm. Preferably, the dimensions of the video device (3)
are at most 20x10x2 cm, more preferably, at most 15x8x1.5 cm, more preferably at most
12x6x1 cm, more preferably at most 1Ox5xO.5 cm. For example, dimensions of at most 20x10x2
cm means according to the present description that the video device (3) has a length of at most
20 cm, a width of at most 10 cm and a thickness of at most 2 cm.
                                                   6

Both the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) are remova
bly attached to the box (1). Removal of the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and
the video device (3) from the box (1) allows carrying the at least one medicament delivery de
vice (4, 4a) and the video device (3) without the need to carry the entire box (1). As carrying the
at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) without the box (1) is
much more comfortable as compared to carrying the entire bulky box (1) it is more likely as
compared to the prior art that the patient will indeed carry the medicament delivery device (4,
4a) at all times so that the medicament delivery device (4, 4a) is available when needed. More
over, as the video device can be removed from the bulky box (1) it is more likely as compared to
the prior art that the patient will also carry the video device (3) so that the instructions for using
the medicament delivery device (4, 4a) are available when needed. Thus, the likelihood of im
proper use of the medicament delivery device (4, 4a) is decreased as compared to the prior art.
In embodiments in which the Kit comprises a video access means (11), the video access means
is preferably removably attached to the box (1). This allows carrying the video access means
independently of the box (1), which may be more comfortable as compared to carrying the en
tire box (1).
Preferably, the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) are
attached to the box (1) via holding means. Preferably, the holding means are part of the box (1).
The holding means (2b) for the video device (3) are preferably located at the internal surface of
the lid (2).
Optionally, the video access means (11) is also attached to the box (1) via holding means. Pref
erably, the video access means (11) is removably attached to the box (1) independently of the
at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) so that the video ac
cess means can be removed from the box (1) independently of the at least one medicament
delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3).
Preferably, the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) are
attached to the box (1) in such a way that access to the at least one medicament delivery de
vice (4, 4a) and to the video device (3) is prevented when the lid (2) is in the closed position. In
such a way, the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) are
protected from external forces if the lid (2) is in the closed position.
Preferably, the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) are
removably attached to the box (1) in such a way that the at least one medicament delivery de
                                                     7

vice (4, 4a) and the video device (3) can be removed from the box (1) independently from each
other. In such a way, the patient can decide whether the at least one medicament delivery de
vice (4, 4a) or the video device (3) or both the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a)
and the video device (3) should be carried. For example, for patients that are highly experi
enced with self-administration of the medicament there is no need to carry the video device (3).
On the other hand, it may be advantageous if the video device (3) can be carried separately
because it may then be used for training purposes without the need to carry the expensive and
potentially sensitive medicament delivery device (4, 4a). Furthermore, it may be disadvanta
geous for both receiving the instructions provided by the video device (3) and for administering
the medicament by use of the medicament delivery device (4, 4a) if the video device (3) and the
medicament delivery device (4, 4a) were inseparably connected to each other.
Preferably, the box (1) further comprises a medicament delivery device dummy (6). Such dum
my (6) may be useful for testing the way of applying the medicament delivery device (4, 4a).
Preferably, the medicament delivery device dummy (6) is constructed analogously to the medic
ament delivery device (4, 4a). However, the medicament delivery device dummy (6) does not
contain any medicament in contrast to the medicament delivery device (4, 4a). Thus, the patient
may use the medicament delivery device dummy (6) according to the instructions provided by
the video device (3) in order to practice the self-administration of the medicament.
Preferably, the box (1) further comprises a removable casing (5) for the at least one medica
ment delivery device (4, 4a) and/or the video device (3). Preferably, the casing (5) is a bag (5).
Preferably, the casing (5) comprises a first compartment (9) for receiving the at least one me
dicament delivery device (4, 4a) and a second compartment (10) for receiving the video device
(3). This allows that the video device (3) and the medicament delivery device (4, 4a) can be
conveniently carried together. In some embodiments, the box (1) further comprises a third com
partment for receiving the data storage device (11).
Preferably, the first compartment (9) is closable. Thus, the first compartment (9) is preferably
reversibly switchable from an open state to a closed state and from a closed state to an open
state. Preferably, the first compartment (9) comprises a lid configured for closing the first com
partment (9). Preferably, the lid is movable between an open position, in which access to the at
least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) in the first compartment (9) is possible, and a
closed position, in which access to the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) in the
first compartment (9) is prevented by the lid. Preferably, the lid is movable between the open
position and the closed position via a hinge that connects the lid to the corpus of the casing (5).
                                                   8

Preferably, the casing (5) comprises closing means (7) for reversibly fixing the lid in the closed
so that the first compartment (9) is in the closed state. Preferred closing means (7) are selected
from the group consisting of magnetic locks, zip fasteners and hook-and-loop fasteners. Particu
larly preferred closing means (7) are zip fasteners.
Preferably, the second compartment (10) is closable. Thus, the second compartment (10) is
preferably reversibly switchable from an open state to a closed state and from a closed state to
an open state. Preferably, the casing (5) comprises closing means (8) configured for reversibly
closing the second compartment (10), thus for reversibly fixing the second compartment (10) in
the closed state. Preferably, the closing means (8) are movable between an open position, in
which access to the video device (3) in the second compartment (10) is possible, and a closed
position, in which access to the video device (3) in the second compartment (10) is prevented
by the closing means (8). Preferred closing means (8) are selected from the group consisting of
elastic bands, magnetic locks, zip fasteners and hook-and-loop fasteners. Particularly preferred
closing means (8) are elastic bands and magnetic locks. Even more preferred closing means (8)
are elastic bands.
In preferred embodiments, both the first compartment (9) and the second compartment (10) are
closable.
The box (1) of the present invention may also comprise both a medicament delivery device
dummy (6) and a removable casing (5) for the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a)
and/or the video device (3).
The present invention shall be further explained with regard to preferred embodiments shown in
figures 1 to 5. It is understood that the present invention is not restricted to the embodiments
shown in the figures. Rather, these embodiments are preferred and representative embodi
ments that exemplarily illustrate the inventive concept of the present invention.
Figure 1 shows a perspective scheme of a box (1) of the present invention. In figure 1, the
box (1) is in a closed state that does not allow direct access to the at least one medicament de
livery device (4, 4a) and the video device (3) contained in the box (1). The box (1) has to be
opened in order to get access to the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and the
video device (3).
Figure 2 shows a perspective scheme of a box (1) of the present invention. Figure 2 shows a
preferred embodiment according to the present invention, in a schematic illustration. Figure 2
                                                   9

shows the box (1) in an open state. Thus, the lid (2) is in an open position so that access to the
medicament delivery devices (4, 4a) and to the video device (3) in the box (1) is possible. Ac
cording to the embodiment shown in figure 2, the box (1) comprises exactly two medicament
delivery devices (4, 4a). The video device (3) is attached to the box (1) via holding means (2b).
The holding means (2b) for the video device (3) are located at the internal surface of the lid (2).
The lid (2) is movable between the open position and the closed position via a hinge that con
nects the lid (2) to the corpus of the box. The lid (2) comprises closing means (2a) for fixing the
lid (2) in the closed position by detachably attaching the lid (2) to the corpus of the box (1). The
closing means (2a) are located on the opposite side of the hinge. The box (1) further comprises
a removable casing (5) for the medicament delivery devices (4, 4a) and for the video device (3).
The box (1) also comprises a video access means (11), which is attached to the box. In this
embodiment, the video access means (11) is a matrix barcode, such as a QR code. When the
matrix barcode is scanned using a mobile device, the mobile device is configured to open a web
page at the URL address stored by the matrix barcode. The web page displays a training video
that provides video instructions for using the medicament delivery devices (4, 4a). In this way,
video instructions for using the medicament delivery device can be accessed quickly, using a
mobile device.
Figure 3 shows a perspective scheme of a box (1) of the present invention. Figure 3 shows the
box (1) in an open state. Figure 3 shows a preferred embodiment according to the present in
vention. Figure 3 shows an alternative embodiment as compared to the embodiment shown in
figure 2. The box (1) shown in figure 3 comprises a medicament delivery device dummy (6). In
addition, the box (1) includes a USB device (not shown). The USB device stores a training video
that provides video instructions for using the medicament delivery device.
Figure 4 shows a perspective scheme of a box (1) of the present invention. Figure 4 shows the
box (1) in an open state. Figure 4 shows a preferred embodiment according to the present in
vention. Figure 4 shows an alternative embodiment as compared to the embodiments shown in
figures 2 and 3. The box (1) shown in figure 4 does neither comprise a medicament delivery
device dummy (6) nor a removable casing (5) for the medicament delivery devices (4, 4a) and
for the video device (3). In addition, the box (1) includes a USB device (not shown). The USB
device stores a training video that provides video instructions for using the medicament delivery
device.
Figure 5 shows a perspective scheme of a removable casing (5) for the at least one medica
ment delivery device (4, 4a) and for the video device (3). The casing (5) comprises a first com
                                                   10

partment (9) for receiving the at least one medicament delivery device (4, 4a) and a second
compartment (10) for receiving the video device (3). The casing (5) comprises closing means
(7) for reversibly closing the first compartment (9). The casing (5) also comprises closing means
(8) for reversibly closing the second compartment (10).
List of reference signs
1        box
2        lid
2a       closing means
3        video device
4, 4a    medicament delivery device
5        casing
6        medicament delivery device dummy
7        closing means
8        closing means
9        first compartment
10       second compartment
11       video access means
                                                  11

Claims
   1. Kit comprising a box containing at least one medicament delivery device and a video de
   vice, wherein both the at least one medicament delivery device and the video device are
   removably attached to the box.
   2. Kit according to claim 1, further comprising video access means in addition to the video
   device.
   3. Kit according to claim 2 wherein the video access means comprises one or both of (a) a
   graphical representation containing information relating to video instructions for using the
   medicament delivery device and (b) a data storage device comprising video instructions for
   using the medicament delivery device.
   4. Kit according to claim 2, wherein the graphical representation comprises a barcode that
   represents data describing a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), and preferably wherein the
   barcode is a two dimensional barcode, more preferably wherein the barcode is a Quick Re
   sponse code (QR code).
   5. Kit according to claim 3, wherein the data storage device comprises an integrated inter
   face for communicating with a personal computer, preferably wherein the data storage de
   vice is a Universal Serial Bus (USB) memory device.
   6. Kit according to any preceding claim, wherein the box is closeable by a lid that is mova
   ble between an open position and a closed position.
   7. Kit according to claim 6, wherein the lid comprises closing means for fixing the lid in the
   closed position by detachably attaching the lid to the corpus of the box.
   8. Kit according to claim 7, wherein the closing means are configured for interaction with
   corresponding closing means on the corpus of the box so that the closing means on the lid
   and the corresponding closing means on the corpus of the box form a closing mechanism
   selected from the group consisting of magnetic locks, zip fasteners and hook-and-loop fas
   teners.
   9. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one medica
   ment delivery device and the video device are removably attached to the box in such a way
                                                12

that access to the at least one medicament delivery device and to the video device is pre
vented when the lid is in the closed position.
10. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one medica
ment delivery device and the video device are removably attached to the box in such a way
that the at least one medicament delivery device and the video device can be removed from
the box independently from each other.
11. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the box contains a first
medicament delivery device and a second medicament delivery device.
12. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one medica
ment delivery device is selected from the group consisting of pre-filled medical injectors, au
to-injectors, inhalers, and transdermal delivery devices.
13. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one medica
ment delivery device comprises at least one active ingredient.
14. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the active ingredient is se
lected from the group consisting of epinephrine, insulin, human growth hormone (HGH) and
erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA).
15. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the dimensions of the vid
eo device are at most 20x10x2 cm, preferably 15x8x1,5 cm and more preferred 12x6x1,2
cm.
16. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the video device is config
ured to provide visual or audio-visual instructions for using the medicament delivery device.
17. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the box further comprises
a medicament delivery device dummy.
18. Kit according to at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the box further comprises
a removable casing for the at least one medicament delivery device and/or the video device.
19. Kit according to claim 9, wherein the casing comprises a first compartment for receiving
the at least one medicament delivery device and a second compartment for receiving the
video device.
                                              13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702>
             <U+2701><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

