                                              1
                                       ABSTRACT
The disclosed louvre end cap assembly system is a simple, effective and damage-resistant
system comprising of connective components that securely attach due to shape and design,
including a push in stile flange 1 which clips and secures against the aluminium side stile
of the shutter system device, shutter louvre end caps 2 available for manufacture in either a
'regular' form or in a 'rebate' form to allow for the attachment of an extra component being
a 'tilt rod' and designed to accommodate the push in stile flange and when pushed into the
louvre of the shutter system device provides superior closure eliminating excessive light
gaps, an enhanced strengthening louvre core 3 that accommodates the shutter louvre end
caps, a shutter louvre end cap pin 4 for both 'regular' and 'rebate' forms of the shutter louvre
end caps, which has a circular recessed housing in order to accommodate the push in stile
flange, a shutter louvre end cap lip 5 which is inserted into the shutter louvre end caps and
connects the flush into the cap recess, and ribbed strengthening walls 6 of the shutter louvre
end caps that enable the respective end cap to be firmly pushed into the louvre end
alleviating the need for glue, screws or any other form of attachment mechanism.

   Fig. 2.
     a.
     b.
654

             AUSTRALIA
            Patents Act 1990
       COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
         INNOVATION PATENT
LOUVRE END CAP ASSEMBLY SYSTEM

                                                 1
                         LOUVRE END CAP ASSEMBLY SYSTEM
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001] This invention is a result of the shortcomings of the connective assembly system product
of shutter system devices.
[0002] For many years, shutter system devices have consisted of varying connective assembly
system and components. These systems and components including, but not limited to, the panels
and louvres, have limited the array of shutter system designs available as those designs did not
offer effective control over the unintentional or detrimental entrance and exit of light through
the devices. This has resulted in shutter system devices becoming vulnerable to potential
damage due to said exposed openings.
[0003] For many years, shutter system devices have comprised of protruding edges and
connectors causing the impairment of shutter system device efficacy and capability to block
excessive light penetration. Previous models of shutter system devices were physically
impractical and an inefficient use of space and exposed connecting components exterior to the
shutter system device.
[0004] Previous models of shutter system devices have impaired the effective functioning and
have reduced the lifespan of those devices and components, including, but not limited to,
the panels and louvres, by way of unnecessary exposure of the components exterior to the
device. For many years, shutter system devices have required glues of various descriptions,
complicating the manufacturing process by way of increasing the materials, time and
procedures applied to manufacture and produce shutter system devices.
[0005] Shutter system devices have comprised of stiles being vertical components attached to
the sides of the louvres of the shutter system device, save the aluminium stiles contained inside

                                                2
the panel and louvres components of the shutter system device. For many years, the stiles
components of shutter system devices have lacked sufficient strengthening features.
[0006] For many years, shutter system devices have been manufactured from a variety of
materials, including metals, which have inhibited and restricted shutter system devices from
operating and maintaining optimal performance and potentially available strength.
SOLUTION TO PROBLEM
[0007] This invention has been specially devised in order to provide for an improved system
and shutter system device. The invention's design is simple, effective and damage-resistant,
whereby the assembly system and relevant components of this invention are connective and
prevent unintentional or detrimental entrance and exit of light, are dually protected from
exterior damage and may be readily operated accordingly.
[0008] This invention will remove the need for the substantial use of metal materials as
the design of the assembly system will comprise primarily of materials                  including
Polyvinyl Chloride ("PVC") and nylon. The assembly system will attach to the aluminium stiles
contained inside the louvres of the particular shutter system device.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0009] This invention may be better understood with reference to the illustrations of
embodiments of the invention, in which:
Figure 1 shows a 'push in stile flange' manufactured out of the material, PVC.
(Note: this specification does not extend to panel stiles comprising of aluminium or any other
material). The push in stile flange clips and secures against the aluminium side stile of the
shutter system device. Figure 1 shows that the push in stile flange houses the shutter louvre end

                                                   3
cap pin (see 4 below) thereby allowing smooth and unrestricted rotation of the louvre and the
adjoining shutter system device.
Figure 2 shows the 'shutter louvre end caps' manufactured out of the material, PVC.
The shutter louvre end caps have a 10 millimetre diameter adapting core and are available for
manufacture in either the 'regular' form of the model and design (see figure 2 a.) or with a
'rebate' form of the model and design to allow for the attachment of an extra component being
a 'tilt rod' (see figure 2 b.). The shutter louvre end caps may be produced in a variety of shapes
including circular, oval, square or rectangular. The shutter louvre end caps securely push into
the enhanced strengthening louvre core (see Figure 3 below).
The shutter louvre end caps are designed to accommodate the push in stile flange and when
pushed into the louvre of the shutter system device provides superior closure eliminating
excessive light gaps.
Figure 3 shows an 'enhanced strengthening louvre core' manufactured out of the material,
aluminium or any other appropriate material. The enhanced strengthening louvre core is 14
millimetres in diameter with an eight (8) millimetre wall and accommodates the shutter louvre
end caps. The enhanced strengthening louvre core may be produced in a hollow or filled-in
form and in a variety of shapes including circular, oval, square or rectangular to accommodate
an end cap manufactured in those shapes.
Both the 'regular' and 'rebate' forms of the model and design of the shutter louvre end caps
have a 'shutter louvre end cap pin' 4. The shutter louvre end cap pin is three (3) millimetres
in length and may be manufactured out of materials including nylon, PVC, aluminium or any
other metal material. The shutter louvre end cap pin has a circular recessed housing in order to
accommodate the push in stile flange.
The shutter louvre end caps feature a thin lip being the 'shutter louvre end cap lip' 5. The
shutter louvre end cap lip is 0.5 millimetres in thickness and manufactured out of the material,
PVC. When inserted into the shutter louvre end caps, the shutter louvre end cap lip connects

                                                4
the flush into the cap recess thus providing a streamlined, seamless appearance at the point of
connection.
The shutter louvre end caps feature 'ribbed strengthening walls' 6 which enables the
shutter louvre end caps to be firmly pushed into the louvre end, alleviating the need for glue,
screws or any other form of attachment mechanism.

        Editorial Note
        <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

The claims defining this invention are as follows:
1. A louvre end cap assembly system for effective prevention of unintentional or detrimental
   entrance and exit of light, and said assembly system comprising of connective components
   including a push in stile flange which clips and secures against the aluminium side stile of
   the shutter system device, shutter louvre end caps has a 10 millimetre diameter adapting
   core available for manufacture in either a 'regular' form or in a 'rebate' form to allow for
   the attachment of an extra component being a 'tilt rod', an enhanced strengthening louvre
   core is 10 millimetres in diameter and accommodates the shutter louvre end caps, a shutter
   louvre end cap pin for both 'regular' and 'rebate' forms of the shutter louvre end caps is
   three (3) millimetres in length which has a circular recessed housing in order to
   accommodate the push in stile flange, a shutter louvre end cap lip is 0.5 millimetres thick
   and inserted into the shutter louvre end caps and connects the flush into the cap recess,
   and ribbed strengthening walls of the shutter louvre end caps that enable the respective end
   cap to be firmly pushed into the louvre end alleviating the need for glue, screws or any
   other form of attachment mechanism.
2. The louvre core assembly system as claimed in claim 1 provides closure eliminating
   excessive light gaps and a streamlined, seamless appearance at the point of connection by
   way of the shutter louvre end caps design accommodating the connection between the push
   in stile flange and the louvre of the shutter system device whilst the shutter louvre end cap
   lip inserts into the shutter louvre end caps and connects the flush into the cap recess
   providing.
3. The shutter louvre end caps and shutter louvre end cap lip components of the louvre
   end cap assembly system as claimed in claim 1 are formed using the material,
   Polyvinyl Chloride, and may be formed at any size.
4. The enhanced strengthening louvre core component of the louvre end cap assembly system
   as claimed in claim 1 is formed using materials including aluminium or any other
   appropriate material, is 14 millimetres in diameter with an eight (8) millimetre wall and

   may be formed at any size, hollow or filled-in and shapes including circular, rectangular,
   oval and square.
5. The shutter louvre cap pin and ribbed strengthening walls components of the louvre end
   cap assembly system as claimed in claim 1 are formed using materials including nylon,
   Polyvinyl Chloride, aluminium or any other appropriate material, and may be formed at
   any size.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
