        ABSTRACT
        A nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method is provided in the present invention,
  the method comprising the following steps of: providing a weldment and a welded plate to which
5 the weldment is to be welded, an end of the weldment to be welded to the welded plate being
  provided with a first welding face and a second welding face, the first welding face and the
  second welding face forming a pointed cone,the first welding face corresponding to a first
  welding area, and the second welding face corresponding to a second welding area; in the first
  welding area, welding being performed at the innermost side of the pointed cone to form a first
0 welding pass; in the second welding area, welding being performed at the innermost side of the
  pointed cone to form a second welding pass, and then welding being performed at the outer side
  of the second welding pass to form a third welding pass adjacent to the second welding pass; in
  the first welding area, welding being performed at the outer side of the first welding pass to form
  a fourth welding pass, and then welding being performed at a position adjacent to the fourth
5 welding pass to form a fifth welding pass; in the second welding area, welding being performed at
  the outer side of the third welding pass to form a sixth welding pass. By means of the foregoing
  nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method, residual stress can be effectively overcome,
  and deformation of the weld can be controlled and reduced.

                   10
101                1l02
    23                  22
     4           3
       1       2
                        11
         Fig. 1
           1/7

                             Nightside Inclined-vertical-butting Welding Method
   Field of the Invention
 5       The invention relates to the field of steel structure welding, and in particular to an ultra-long
   nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding structure and a welding method of the structure.
   Background of the Invention
         With the continuous development of our country's economy, the people's material and
   cultural living standards have reached a new high level. The people's concept of demand for
 0 buildings (especially public buildings) has also undergone fundamental changes, because the
   aesthetic performance of buildings has also become higher than ever while the functional and
   safety requirements have been increasing. In the past 15 years, various types of steel constructions
   with novel structures and unique shapes have emerged in the country. While constantly pursuing
   performance and aesthetics, it presents greater challenges and higher requirements for the
 5 manufacture and installation of steel structures, and in particular for welding of steel structures.
         Due to the increasingly complex nature of the nodes and the differences of on-site
   construction    conditions, various forms of nightside        inclined-vertical-butting   welding are
   constantly emerging, but there are no mature cases and construction specifications for reference.
         For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,292,496 by M. G. Hoy et al. discloses a vertical plate
 0 welding method using double oblique welds, which is proposed for thick plate welding, and as
   described herein, well-known methods for improving thick plate welding comprising, for example,
   use of special welds (such as single-side or double-side U, V, X and Y-shaped bevels), increase of
   the welding current or reduction of the welding speed, and so on. The method of this patent is
   directed to arc welding of thick plates (approximately 3.8 cm) such as aluminium and aluminium
25 alloys, selecting the welding current at 290 to 420 A, and proposing the use of a double inclined
   seam vertical plate welding process under the protection of an inert gas (such as pure
   argon).However, the essence of the method is to improve the toughness of the weld joint, such as
   when welding of aluminium alloys, without considering how to ensure the welding speed, in
   particular, without giving no practical parameters for the welding of steel plates, and without
30 proposing any solutions to eliminate the welding residual stress or solve the problem of sheet
   deformation.
         For another example, Chinese Patent Application No. 94114847.5 relates to a large-scale
   workpiece, such as a disk-type hydro-generator rotor bracket "on-site" welding method, and
   although the relevant welding parameters are given in the literature, but the operation manner of

   the method is essentially based on the consideration of factory conditions, with the aim of special
   weldments to reduce the welding stress, shrinkage and deformation of the disc surface, without
   considering the elimination of the welding residual stress or the problem of deformation of the
   welded plate as well.
 5       In view of this, in order to solve the above problems, it is necessary to provide a new
   nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method.
   Summary of the Invention
         The purpose of the invention is to provide a method for overcoming the residual stress and
 0 deformation control during the construction process of profiled ultra-long oblique vertical
   welding, providing a nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method with better inclined weld
   droplet transition forms, welding sequences and high-altitude welding operation protection.
         In order to achieve the above object, the present invention provides a nightside
   inclined-vertical-butting  welding method, the method comprising the following steps of:
 5 providing a weldment and a welded plate to which the weldment is to be welded, wherein an end
   of the weldment to be welded to the welded plate is provided with a first welding face and a
   second welding face, the first welding face and the second welding face form a pointed cone, a tip
   position of the pointed cone is defined as an inner side, the space between the first welding face
   and the welded plate is a first welding area, and the space between the second welding face and
 0 the welded plate is a second welding area; in the first welding area, the weldment and the welded
   plate being welded at the innermost side of the pointed cone to form a first welding pass; in the
   second welding area, the weldment and the welded plate being welded at the innermost side of the
   pointed cone to form a second welding pass, and then welding being performed at the outer side
   of the second welding pass to form a third welding pass adjacent to the second welding pass;in the
25 first welding area, the weldment and the welded plate being welded at the outer side of the first
   welding pass to form a fourth welding pass, and then welding being performed at a position
   adjacent to the fourth welding pass to form a fifth welding pass;in the second welding area, the
   weldment and the welded plate being welded adjacent to the outer side of the third welding pass
   to form a sixth welding pass.
30       As an improvement of the present invention, the first weld pass and the second weld pass
   are welded with welding wire having a diameter of 1.2 mm, welding current of 120 amperes,
   welding voltage of 18.5 V, and welding speed of 13 cm per minute.
         As an improvement of the present invention, the third weld pass and the fourth weld pass
   are welded with welding wire having a diameter of 1.2 mm, welding current of 135 amperes,
                                                     2

   welding voltage of 20 V, and welding speed of 9 cm per minute.
         As an improvement of the present invention, the fifth weld pass and the sixth weld pass are
   welded with welding wire having a diameter of 1.2 mm, welding current of 125 amperes, welding
   voltage of 20.5 V, and welding speed of 6.5 cm per minute.
 5       As an improvement of the present invention, when the outside temperature is below 0
   degree, preheating to 30-50 degrees within 75 mm on both sides of a weld joint is required.
         As an improvement of the present invention, the method further comprises a heating and
   dehumidifying step when the air humidity in a weld is greater than 85%.
         As an improvement of the present invention, the method further comprises a post-heating
 0 treatment in which a width range of 100 mm on both sides of a weld is evenly heated with heating
   temperature of 200 ~ 250 'C, and holding time of 1 hour for a plate thickness of every 25 mm,
   and during heating, heating is evenly performed from low to high from edge to center and from
   center to edge.
         As an improvement of the present invention, the method further comprises a preheating step,
 5 and the width of the preheating range is selected to be 150 mm.
         As an improvement of the present invention, the method further comprises the following
   steps of: after the welding is completed, a local heat treatment is performed on the weld to
   eliminate the stress, wherein the heat treatment adopts a resistance heater, and the covering width
   is 320 mm around the weld.
 0       As an improvement of the present invention, the weldment is a herringbone arch, and the
   welded plate is an inverted triangle roof ridge, the herringbone arch comprising two vertically
   intersecting webs, which are a long web and a short web, respectively, the herringbone arch
   further comprising an upper chord round tube and a lower chord arc plate.
         As an improvement of the present invention, before welding, the lower chord arc plate of the
25 herringbone arch is separated from the webs, the long web and the inverted triangle ridge roof are
   separately welded, and after the long web is welded to the inverted triangle roof ridge, the lower
   chord arc plate is then welded to the long web.
         As an improvement of the present invention, in the process of welding the lower chord arc
   plate to the long web, two lower chord arc plates on an opposite surface are welded first, and then
30 two lower chord arc plates on another opposite surface is welded.
         As an improvement of the present invention, the lower chord arc plate is arc-shaped and
   comprises two opposite straight sides and two opposite curved sides, and in the process of
   welding the lower chord arc plate to the long web, the two curved sides are first welded to the
   long web, and then the two straight sides are welded to the long web.
                                                      3

         As an improvement of the present invention, each side of the lower chord arc plate is
   divided into a first welding zone and a reserved zone, and when welding, the first welding zone of
   each side is first welded, and the reserved zones are then welded after the first welding zones on
   the four sides are welded.
 5       As an improvement of the present invention, when the webs have large deformation, the
   method further comprises a heating correction step where the heating temperature is controlled to
   650 ±500 C.
         As an improvement of the present invention, the method further uses a rack, the rack
   comprising several channel steel frames for forming the framework of the rack, the channel steel
 0 frame being provided with several transverse angle steel frames for forming several brackets to
   further lay steel springboards, and being further provided with a steel ladder therein.
         The method provided by the present invention adopts a welding method for performing
   three-shot full-swing and segmented welding on each side of the bevel to a thin layer, and strictly
   controls the thickness and width of a single-pass weld to reduce the heat input for welding. Since
 5 the weld of the web is a penetration-butting weld with a tapered splice and a double-side bevel,
   the weld is equivalent to a surfacing overlay weld with respect to a flange plate (spine side plate),
   wherein a plastic deformation zone is mainly in the plate thickness direction, and the lateral
   deformation of the weld metal is not constrained by the base material. Relatively speaking, the
   effect of residual stress is reduced, and the weld of the web is a penetration-butting weld with a
 0 double-side V-shaped bevel to efficiently reduce the deformation of weld angles.At the same time,
   during installation, the accuracy of docking is strictly ensured, and the weld spacing is controlled
   to minimize the residual deformation of the weld caused by the increase in the cross-sectional
   area of the weld.
25 Brief Description of the Drawings
         FIG. 1 is a structural schematic view of a nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method
   according to the present invention.
         FIG. 2 is a schematic flow chart of the nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method
   according to the present invention.
30       FIG. 3 is a structural schematic view of one specific embodiment of the nightside
   inclined-vertical-butting welding method according to the present invention.
         FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional schematic view of a herringbone arch in the specific embodiment
   of FIG. 3.
         FIG. 5 is a structural schematic view of an arc plate in the specific embodiment of FIG. 3.
                                                      4

          FIG. 6 is a schematic structural view of the arc plate in FIG. 5 at the time of welding.
          FIG.   7    is a   schematic    perspective   view    of   a   rack   used   in   the  nightside
   inclined-vertical-butting welding method according to the present invention.
          Fig. 8 is a table of process parameters during welding the weldment to the welded plate
 5 according to the present invention.
   Detailed Description of the Embodiments
          In order to further illustrate the technical means and effects of the present invention to
   achieve the intended purpose, specific embodiments, structures, features and effects of the
 0 nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method proposed in accordance with the present
   invention will be described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings and
   preferred embodiments.
           The foregoing and other technical details, characteristics, and effects of the present
   invention will be apparent from the following detailed description with reference to the
 5 preferred embodiments shown in the drawings. Through the description of the specific
   embodiments, the technical means and effects adopted by the present invention to
   achieve the intended purpose can be more deeply and specifically understood, although
   the drawings are only for reference and for the sake of description, and are not intended
   to limit the present invention. As the basic content of the welding operation, before the actual
 0 construction of the on-site welding of ultra-long nightside inclined-vertical welding, the technical
   quality department first evaluates the welding procedure according to factors such as the actual
   form of on-site welding and the on-site welding environment. After completion of personnel and
   material preparation, it is also necessary to test the base material of a member (mainly detecting
   the position of the node) before the actual welding, and determine the welding sequence and
25 process according to the actual form of node. While doing welding routines, it is necessary to
   design a dedicated welding operation platform according to the form of node, and the ultra-long
   inclined vertical welding of the night side shall be carried out in the welding construction process
   by means of layering, separation, symmetry, and simultaneous welding, which on the one hand
   ensures the temperature control in the welding process, and on the other hand, check the
30 installation position of the member in time by using an electronic total station. Similarly, after the
   completion of the welding operation, it is necessary to perform self-inspection of the project, weld
   inspection by a professional inspection agency and the like.
          Before the welding construction, the on-site construction personnel shall be organized to
   carefully study the implementation design of the construction organization and the design
                                                        5

   requirements of construction drawings, clarify the relevant technical problems and know the
   specifications and technical standards well. Construction safety assurance measures are stipulated
   and corresponding emergency plans are made. The technical personnel of the construction
   personnel shall be given a technical disclosure, and the participating construction personnel shall
 5 be trained before starting the job, and shall be employed with a certificate holder after passing an
   examination. This mainly includes the following four parts of:
          (1) Familiar with construction drawings, construction plans and related regulatory
   requirements.
          (2) Preparing job instructions, technical disclosures, and ensuring that the technical
 0 disclosures are given to individuals.
          (3) Understanding operating points and countermeasures for welding operations in special
   environments; and understanding the welding process requirements for special welding sites.
          (4) Before the actual welding, according to the design documents of this project, the
   construction process and acceptance standards stipulated in the drawings, combining with the
 5 structural characteristics of the project, the form of the node, etc. to make the corresponding
   welding process assessment.
          The preparations for the field mainly include the collection of various external equipment
   and data such as equipment materials involved in the construction operation layer.
          Please    refer  to   FIG. 1, which       is a    structural schematic  view   of a nightside
 0 inclined-vertical-butting welding method according to the present invention. The structure
   includes a weldment 10 and a welded plate 11 to be welded to the weldment 10, wherein an end
   of the weldment 10 to be welded to the welded plate 11 is provided with a first welding face 101
   and a second welding face 102, the first welding face 101 and the second welding face 102 form a
   pointed cone, a tip position of the pointed cone is defined as an inner side, the space between the
25 first welding face 101 and the welded plate 11 is a first welding area 21, the space between the
   second welding face 102 and the welded plate 11 is a second welding area 22, and the solder 23
   for welding is contained between the both welding areas.
          Please also refer to FIG. 2. In the process of welding the weldment 10 and the welded plate
   11, the present invention adopts the flow of sub-area and pass-separation welding as follows:
30        firstly, positing the relative locations of the weldment 10 and the welded plate 11;
          next, performing the first step of welding wherein the weldment 10 and the welded plate 11
   are welded in the first welding area 21, and the welding position is the innermost side of the taper,
   i.e. the position as shown as 1 in Fig. 1 (the first welding pass);
          thirdly, performing the second step of welding wherein the weldment 10 and the welded
                                                          6

   plate 11 are welded in the second welding area 22, and the welding position is the innermost side
   of the taper, i.e. the position as shown as 2 in Fig. 1 (the second welding pass), followed by
   welding of the third pass, of which position is the outside of the position of the second welding
   pass 2 in Fig. 1, and next to the position of the second welding pass 2, i.e. the position of 3 (the
 5 third welding pass);
         fourthly, performing the third step of welding wherein the weldment 10 and the welded plate
   11 are welded in the first welding area 21, and the welding position is the outside of the position
   of the first welding pass 1 in Fig. 1, i.e. the position of 4 (the fourth welding pass), followed by
   welding of the fifth pass, of which position is next to the outside of the position of the fourth
 0 welding pass 4, i.e. the position of 5 (the fifth welding pass);
         fifthly, performing the fourth step of welding wherein the weldment 10 and the welded plate
   11 are welded in the second welding area 22, and the welding position is the outside of the
   position of the third welding pass 3 in Fig. 1, i.e. the position of 6 (the sixth welding pass).
         Simply speaking, the welding sequence is to weld one pass of a first side between two
 5 elements; next weld two passes of the other side between the two elements; then weld two passes
   of the first side; and finally weld the last pass of the other side, the total of 6 passes with three
   passes on each side.
         According to the above, the welding passes in the first area 21 includes 1, 4, and 5, and the
   welding passes in the second area 22 includes 2, 3, and 6, wherein the three welding passes in
 0 each area need to be performed in accordance with the process parameters in Fig. 8.
         This weld belongs to inclined welding position, for example, with the vertical angle of 200,
   which has strong upward welding characteristics. Due to the relatively high welding efficiency of
   shooting droplets to a spatial position, the weld is difficult to be controlled during welding, and
   the droplet transition mode of short-circuit transition should be adopted. The short-circuit
25 transition voltage is controlled between 18 to 20V, the short circuit time is longer, the welding
   process is more stable, and it can be better formed on the inclined position of the night side. A
   smaller voltage will also effectively reduce the width of the melt and increase the penetration
   depth.
         The welding current and the diameter of the welding wire, i.e. the current density of the
30 welding wire, also have a great influence on the short-circuit transition. In the choice of welding
   wire, the fine wire has a wide wire feed speed range in the short-circuit transition, and the process
   is easy to control, so a flux-cored wire having a smaller diameter of <pl.2mm is selected, and the
   smaller wire diameter will bring greater current density under the cooling and compression of the
   C02 protection gas, and thereby improve welding efficiency.
                                                         7

          A welding method for three-shot full-swing and segmented welding on each side of the
   bevel to a thin layer strictly controls the thickness and width of a single-pass weld, and reduces
   the heat input for welding to reduce the factors of deceasing the mechanical properties of the weld.
   The thickness of a single pass weld is controlled at about 6mm, and the width of the outermost
 5 weld pass is controlled within the range of l5mm.Segments of the weld are controlled to at about
   0.6m and welded from bottom to top.
          A heating method using oxygen and acetylene gas neutral flame is used to control the
   inter-layer temperature of the weld to be 85 to 100 0C, a temperature thermometer is used for
   monitoring during the welding process, and when the welding temperature of the weld is lower
 0 than a required temperature, it is immediately heated to the required temperature and then is
   welded. The weld must be continuously welded and not allowed to stop welding for no reason, in
   case of special circumstances, immediate measures shall be taken, and after the welding
   conditions are reached, the welds will be reheated, and the heating temperature is 20 to 30'C
   higher than the preheating temperature before welding.
 5        In addition, preferably, some welding conditions may have:
            (1)   when it is raining, no welding is allowed in the open air, and if it is necessary to
   carry out the construction, a rainproof treatment must be performed, and rainproof and windproof
   measures must be provided in the welding work area;
            (2)   when the outside temperature is lower than 0 degree, it is necessary to preheat to
 0 30-50 degrees within a range of 75 mm on both sides of a weld joint;
            (3)   if the air humidity in the weld is greater than 85%, heat dehumidification treatment
   should be taken;
            (4)   the weld surface needs to be clean, free of rust, and free of paint;
            (5)   when using manual arc welding (wind force greater than 5 m/s) and carbon dioxide
25 gas shielded welding (wind force greater than 2 m/s), it is forbidden to carry out welding
   operations without a windproof shed or without windproof measures;
            (6)   Slag, spatter, and other contaminants should be removed before the actual welding,
   tack welds and arc-stripping sites must be ground to a gentle slope with an angle grinder, and no
   defects such as fusion or shrinkage holes must be identified.
30        During the process of welding construction:
          Welding is done by hand-welding the bottom of the root, semi-automatic welding in the
   middle, and manual welding of the cover. The weldments with liners are all semi-automatically
   welded with C02 gas protection.
          When one or more stoppages of the same pass of weld are to be renewed, the original
                                                        8

   welding head must start arcing at a position of at least 15mm from the original arc extinguishing
   point, and arcing at the original arc extinguishing point is prohibited. When the arc welding of
   C02 gas shielded arc welding is completed, the welding torch can be removed after the protective
   gas is completely stopped and the weld is completely condensed. It is forbidden to remove the
 5 welding torch just after the electrical arc stops burning, so that the red hot melt pool is exposed to
   the atmosphere and C02 gas protection is lost.
          In the bottom layer, an electrical arc must be ignited at the start point of the weld exceeding
   50mm forwards, and then the electrical arc is used for welding. During arc extinguishing, the
   electrical arc is not allowed to extinguish at the joint, and instead, the arc should be led to
 0 extinguish the arc extinguishing plate at 50mm beyond the joint, and fill the crater. The arc is
   transported by a reciprocating arc transfer method. It stays at two sides to avoid the angle between
   the fillet and the bevel, and achieve a smooth transition.
           In the filling layer, before filling and welding, a projection portion on the first layer of the
   weld and the excess portion caused by arc striking should be removed, and the spatter and dust
 5 adhered to the slope wall should be removed to check whether the edge of the bevel is not fused
   or not. If necessary, it must be removed with an angle grinder. When C02 gas shielded arc
   welding, attention should be paid to controlling the flow rate of C02 gas, and the molten pool is
   kept in a level state. The transfer and welding method adopts a slanted circle method. When
   filling the surface of the welding layer, attention should be paid to evenly leaving a depth of 1.5
 0 mm to 2 mm so that the edge of the bevel can be clearly seen when covering.
          Welding the surface layer directly relates to whether the appearance quality of the weld
   meets the quality inspection standards. Before the start of welding, the entire weld should be
   repaired and the unevenness should be eliminated. If it has not reached the standards, it should be
   first repaired to maintain the continuous and uniform forming of the weld. The surface of the weld
25 should be welded in the last welding pass and care should be taken to prevent edge defects at the
   edges.
          During the welding process, the inter-layer temperature of the weld should always be
   controlled between 100 and 150 'C. It is required that the welding process should have the
   greatest continuity. In the welding process, if the repair defect occurs and the welding slag is to be
30 cleaned, the welding must be stopped. As a result, the temperature will decrease, and it must be
   pre-heated until the temperature reaches a specified value.      When a crack occurs in the weld, the
   welding worker shall not handle it without authorization, report it to a person in charge of the
   welding technology, find out the causes, and set up the repair measures before handling.
          Post-weld heat treatment and protective measures are as follows: the weld having a base
                                                        9

   material thickness of 25mm< T <80mm must be post-heated immediately. The post-heat should
   be uniformly heated in the width range of 100 mm on both sides of the weld. Heating is evenly
   performed from low to high from edge to center and from center to edge. It is prohibited that the
   source is concentrated on the local. In the post-heating treatment, the heating temperature is 200
 5 to 250 'C, and the post-heating time should be determined by 1 hour per the plate thickness of
   25mm according to the thickness of the work-piece plate. After reaching the post-heating time, it
   should be slowly cooled to the room temperature.
         Post-welding cleaning and inspection: after welding, spatters and welding slag should be
   removed. After cleaning, a weld gauge and a magnifying glass may be used to inspect the
 0 appearance of the weld. There must be no defects such as dents, undercuts, pores, unmelted
   portions, and cracks. Post-weld self-inspection records may be made. After passing the inspection,
   check the serial number of the welding worker, which should be printed in the middle of the joint
   at a distance of 50mm from the weld in the longitudinal direction of the weld. It is forbidden to
   print it on the edge of the weld and prevent cracking. The appearance quality inspection standard
 5 shall meet the Class I requirements of Table 4-7-13 of GB-50221.
         After welding, clean up. After the welding is completed, the lead and extinguishing plates
   must be removed and polished.
         Non-destructive testing is performed on the weld, and non-destructive inspection is
   performed on the weldment after more than 24 hours have elapsed since it is cooled to the room
 0 temperature. The manner of non-destructive inspection is UT testing, of which standard should be
   consistent with the inspection grades provided in JGB-11345-89 "steel weld manual ultrasonic
   testing method and quality classification method" Inspection grade and issue an inspection report.
         As the web weld is a T-joint double-side bevel penetration butt weld, the weld is equivalent
   to a surfacing overlay weld with respect to a flange plate (spine side plate), a plastic deformation
25 area is mainly in the direction of the plate thickness, and the lateral deformation of the weld metal
   is not constrained by its base material. The residual stress's effect is relatively small. The residual
   stress mainly arises from the joints of the T-joint web and the arc weld to be taken out.
         Various studies have shown that if the temperature difference in the welding area is too large
   or it changes too quickly over time, a large transient stress will be generated and the welding
30 residual stress will be caused. There is a large welding stress in the area of the T-joint weld and in
   the vicinity, and the welding stress is gradually reduced in the area farther from the weld. Before
   the start of work, preheating is performed on the internal base material around the weld. The
   width of the preheat range is selected to be 150mm to avoid a new temperature difference stress
   caused by the narrow range. After the welding is completed, a local heat treatment is performed
                                                       10

   on the weld to eliminate the stress. The heat treatment uses a resistance heater and covers the
   width of 320mm around the weld.
         Please refer to FIG. 3, which is a structural schematic view of one specific embodiment of
   the nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method according to the present invention. In this
 5 embodiment, the configuration includes an inverted triangular roof beam 91 and a herringbone
   arch 92 welded to the triangular roof beam 91. Please also refer to FIG. 4. FIG. 4 shows a
   schematic cross-sectional view of a herringbone arch 92. As shown in the figure, the herringbone
   arch 92 includes two vertically intersecting webs, i.e. a long web 921 and a short web 922, which
   are combined with the web. The upper chord region of the herringbone arch 92 includes an upper
 0 chord round tube 923. The lower chord region of the herringbone arch 92 includes a lower chord
   arc plate 924. In short, the cross-sectional form of the herringbone arch 92 is an olive-shaped
   cross section in which the upper chord is a round tube structure, and the lower chord is an olive
   structure composed of four arc plates, the webs penetrating through the upper and lower chords.
   The length of butt joint between the web of the herringbone arch and the roof beam is 4.87m, the
 5 plate thickness is 30mm, the material is Q345GJC; the plate thickness of the roof beam side at the
   butt joint position is 20mm, and the material is Q345GJC.The web weld (the black line between
   the herringbone arch 92 and the inverted triangle roof beam 91 in Figure 3) is at an angle of 20' to
   the vertical line. In a roof structure, there are a total of 10 pairs (20) of herringbone arches, all of
   which are located in the vault positions at the height of 30m to 45m. Due to the special form of
 0 the arch structure, there is no structure that can be used as an operating surface, and the
   cross-sections of the components are shaped. Therefore, a special safe welding operation platform
   needs to be designed for the characteristics of the special-shaped members. At the same time,
   taking into account that the project is located in a coastal area, the operating time spans the winter
   and spring seasons, the weather is windy, and the operation platform needs to have proper
25 welding protection function to meet the basic requirements of C02 gas shielded welding
   operations with high sensitivity to wind speed.
         From the above, the web of the herringbone arch 92 corresponds to the weldment, whereas
   the inverted triangle ridge 91 corresponds to the welding plate, and the web weld is welded by the
   welding method of the present invention.
30       In this embodiment, in order to facilitate welding, the lower chord arc plate 924 of the
   herringbone arch 91 needs to be separated from the web plate, and the long web 921 and the
   inverted triangle house ridge 91 are separately welded. After the web is welded, the lower chord
   arc plate 924 is welded to the long web 921, because this embodiment includes four lower chord
   arc plates, and any two of the four lower chord arc plates are opposed to each other. During
                                                         11

   welding of the lower chord arc plate 924 to the long web 921, the two lower chord plates on
   opposite sides (in the diagonal direction) are first welded, and then two lower chord arc plates of
   the other pair are welded.
           The length of the butt weld between the web and roof beam is ultra-long, and the length and
 5 thickness are relatively large. Its form is a nightside inclined-vertical weld that is difficult to
   operate at a high altitude. The deformation and residual stress is difficult to control for the T-joint
   of a thick plate assembled by thin plates. The weld is located at the position of the key
   transmission force node of the structure and is extremely sensitive to welding cracks. Controlling
   cracks of the weld is also very important.
 0         Please refer to FIG. 5, which is a schematic diagram of a lower chord arc plate 924. The
   lower arc chord plate 924 has an arc shape and includes two opposite straight sides 924a and two
   opposite curved sides 924b. During welding the lower chord arc plate 924 to the long web 921,
   the two curved sides 924b are first welded to the long web 921, and then the two straight sides
   924a are welded to the long web 921.
 5         Please refer to FIG. 6, which is a structural schematic view of the welding of the lower chord
   arc plate 924. That is, each side of the lower chord arc plate is divided into a first welding zone
   HI and a reserved zone H2, and when welding, the first welding zone HI of each side is first
   welded, and the reserved zones H2 are then welded after the first welding zones HI on the four
   sides are welded.
 0         The degree of binding of the welds causes the release of transient stress during cooling,
   which is a major factor in the generation of residual stress. After the welding of the cross webs
   (i.e., the combination of long and short webs) is completed, the subsequent welding of the lower
   chord arc plate is greatly restrained. Two arc plates at the diagonal position are first welded on the
   welding sequence, and the degree of restraint is small. The other two diagonal arc plates are
25 reserved by 350 mm at the change angle position and then are welded during welding. After other
   positions are welded, welding is performed on the reserved positions so that the welding stress
   can be dissipated more smoothly.
           The web weld is a double-faced V-shaped butt fusion butt weld that can effectively reduce
   weld angle distortion. At the same time, during installation, the accuracy of docking is strictly
30 ensured, and the weld spacing is controlled to minimize the residual deformation of the weld
   caused by the increase in the cross-sectional area of the weld.
           The deformation of the weld is unavoidable and can only be minimized. For example, due to
   accidental factors such as improper operation during welding, a large deformation of the web
   occurs. The method of hammering and heating is used for the treatment. The heating temperature
                                                         12

   is controlled to be at 650 ± 50'C. The number of times of heating at the same place must not
   exceed twice to avoid embitterment of the material.
         Analyze the deformations of the weld that are more likely to occur. One is a local unilateral
   horn deformation, which is caused by the differences in the welding process and personnel levels
 5 at both sides of the welding process. During the calibration, Ribbon heating is performed on the
   outer side of the bending weld and around the outer side. Micro-oxidation flame is used when
   heating.
         Another is a wavy deformation of the web, which is caused by the longitudinal shrinkage of
   the weld. During the calibration, a hammering method is used to hammer the strip range within 3
 0 cm from the weld to make the shortened metal elongated.
         Please refer to FIG. 7, which is a rack 80 used in the present invention. In order to solve the
   space problem of welding operation, a special operation protection rack is designed according to
   structural features. The rack 80 includes several channel steel frames 81 for forming the
   framework of the rack 80. Several transverse angle frames 82 are provided on the channel steel
 5 frame 80 for forming several brackets to further lay a steel springboard (not shown). In addition, a
   steel ladder 83 is also provided in the channel steel frame 81 for the construction personnel to
   pass up and down. The overall form of the rack is the same as the vertical sloping angle of the
   inverted triangle roof beam, which fits the roof beam side plate and the upper part is welded and
   fixed by the card plate and the roof beam, which is safe and reliable. Its four horizontal angle steel
 0 frames can be used to handle the various heights of welding within the rack after laying the
   springboard. During work, a windproof cloth around the frame effectively prevents the impact of
   high altitude and windy environment on the impact of CO2 gas shielded welding.
         A rack can be hung directly on the roof beam weld. A vertical steel ladder is set inside the
   rack to facilitate the workers to walk up and down; the rack is closely attached to the roof beam,
25 and a steel springboard is laid on each floor, and safety nets and windproof cloths are installed
   around the rack to ensure the safety of construction personnel in the rack.
         The welding method provided by the present invention is described in detail from the
   construction process, and is combined with a specific embodiment. The method is systematically
   elaborated from various aspects such as economic timeliness, cost savings, technical experience,
30 quality control, and the like. It is a scientific example of the same type of engineering.         The
   on-site welding method of ultra-long nightside vertical welding controls the difficulty in
   controlling the quality of welding that is difficult to be solved in the past. This eliminates the cost
   of weld repairs and other related costs. On the other hand, a safe and reliable operation rack is
   used in the welding process to the cost of materials.
                                                       13

         The weld structure in the specific embodiment is a space arched pre-stressed structural
  system, which has a unique form, a novel design, and a complex form of components. The steel
  structure of the roof is composed of a 10 inch arch structure and a space stress system. During the
  construction of profiled ultra-long inclined-vertical welding, it overcomes several difficulties in
5 the residual stress and deformation control, the transition pattern of the droplet welds in the
  oblique weld, the welding sequence, and the protection of the high-altitude welding operation.
  This is accomplished with good quality. Welding of unconventional welds can provide lessons for
  similar projects. Among them, the pass rate of one-time inspection of the nightside ultra-long
  inclined-vertical welding weld is 100%, and the pass rate of one-time inspection of the third-party
0 test is 100%, which has achieved good economic and social impact.
         The above description is merely an embodiment of the present invention and does not limit
  the present invention in any form. Although the present invention has been disclosed with the
  above embodiments, it is not intended to limit the present invention. Any technical person skilled
  in the art can make some changes or modifications for the technical content disclosed above as
5 equivalent embodiments without departing from the scope of the technical solution of the present
  invention. However, any simple changes, equivalent variations and modifications made to the
  above embodiments according to the technical essence of the present invention, without departing
  from the technical solution content of the present invention, fall within the scope of the technical
  solution of the present invention.
0
                                                    14

         CLAIMS
         1. A nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method, characterized in that the method
   comprises the following steps of:
 5       providing a weldment and a welded plate to which the weldment is to be welded, wherein an
   end of the weldment to be welded to the welded plate is provided with a first welding face and a
   second welding face, the first welding face and the second welding face form a pointed cone, a tip
   position of the pointed cone is defined as an inner side, the space between the first welding face
   and the welded plate is a first welding area, and the space between the second welding face and
 0 the welded plate is a second welding area;
         in the first welding area, the weldment and the welded plate being welded at the innermost
   side of the pointed cone to form a first welding pass;
         in the second welding area, the weldment and the welded plate being welded at the
   innermost side of the pointed cone to form a second welding pass, and then welding being
 5 performed at the outer side of the second welding pass to form a third welding pass adjacent to the
   second welding pass;
         in the first welding area, the weldment and the welded plate being welded at the outer side
   of the first welding pass to form a fourth welding pass, and then welding being performed at a
   position adjacent to the fourth welding pass to form a fifth welding pass;
 0       in the second welding area, the weldment and the welded plate being welded adjacent to the
   outer side of the third welding pass to form a sixth welding pass.
         2. The nightside inclined-vertical-butting      welding method as claimed in claim 1,
   characterized in that the first weld pass and the second weld pass are welded with welding wire
   having a diameter of 1.2 mm, welding current of 120 amperes, welding voltage of 18.5 V, and
25 welding speed of 13 cm per minute.
         3. The nightside inclined-vertical-butting      welding method as claimed in claim 2,
   characterized in that the third weld pass and the fourth weld pass are welded with welding wire
   having a diameter of 1.2 mm, welding current of 135 amperes, welding voltage of 20 V, and
   welding speed of 9 cm per minute.
30       4. The nightside inclined-vertical-butting      welding method as claimed in claim 3,
   characterized in that the fifth weld pass and the sixth weld pass are welded with welding wire
   having a diameter of 1.2 mm, welding current of 125 amperes, welding voltage of 20.5 V, and
   welding speed of 6.5 cm per minute.
         5. The nightside inclined-vertical-butting      welding method as claimed in claim 1,
                                                      15

   characterized in that when the outside temperature is below 0 degree, preheating to 30-50 degrees
   within 75 mm on both sides of a weld joint is required.
         6. The nightside inclined-vertical-butting      welding method as claimed in claim           1,
   characterized in that the method further comprises a heating and dehumidifying step when the air
 5 humidity in a weld is greater than 85%.
         7. The nightside inclined-vertical-butting      welding method as claimed in claim           1,
   characterized in that the method further comprises a post-heating treatment in which a width
   range of 100 mm on both sides of a weld is evenly heated with heating temperature of 200 to
   250 'C, and holding time of 1 hour for a plate thickness of every 25 mm, and during heating,
 0 heating is evenly performed from low to high from edge to center and from center to edge.
         8. The nightside inclined-vertical-butting      welding method as claimed in claim           1,
   characterized in that the method further comprises a preheating step, and the width of the
   preheating range is selected to be 150 mm.
         9. The nightside inclined-vertical-butting      welding method as claimed in claim 8,
 5 characterized in that the method further comprises the following steps of: after the welding is
   completed, a local heat treatment is performed on the weld to eliminate the stress, wherein the
   heat treatment adopts a resistance heater, and the covering width is 320 mm around the weld.
         10.     The nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method as claimed in claim 1,
   characterized in that the weldment is a herringbone arch, and the welded plate is an inverted
 0 triangle roof ridge, the herringbone arch comprising two vertically intersecting webs, which are a
   long web and a short web, respectively, the herringbone arch further comprising an upper chord
   round tube and a lower chord arc plate.
         11.     The nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method as claimed in claim 10,
   characterized in that before welding, the lower chord arc plate of the herringbone arch is separated
25 from the webs, the long web and the inverted triangle ridge roof are separately welded, and after
   the long web is welded to the inverted triangle roof ridge, the lower chord arc plate is then welded
   to the long web.
         12.     The nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method as claimed in claim 11,
   characterized in that in the process of welding the lower chord arc plate to the long web, two
30 lower chord arc plates on      an opposite surface are welded first, and then two lower chord arc
   plates on another opposite surface is welded.
         13.     The nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method as claimed in claim 10,
   characterized in that the lower chord arc plate is arc-shaped and comprises two opposite straight
   sides and two opposite curved sides, and in the process of welding the lower chord arc plate to the
                                                      16

  long web, the two curved sides are first welded to the long web, and then the two straight sides
  are welded to the long web.
        14.    The nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method as claimed in claim 13,
  characterized in that each side of the lower chord arc plate is divided into a first welding zone and
5 a reserved zone, and when welding, the first welding zone of each side is first welded, and the
  reserved zones are then welded after the first welding zones on the four sides are welded.
        15.    The nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method as claimed in claim 10,
  characterized in that the method further comprises a heating correction step where the heating
  temperature is controlled to 650 ± 50'C, when the webs have large deformation.
0       16.    The nightside inclined-vertical-butting welding method as claimed in claim 1,
  characterized in that the method further uses a rack, the rack comprising several channel steel
  frames for forming the framework of the rack, the channel steel frame being provided with several
  transverse angle steel frames for forming several brackets to further lay steel springboards, and
  being further provided with a steel ladder therein.
                                                     17

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
4/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
7/7

