                                         ABSTRACT
The application is directed to a method for treating or preventing vasculopathy comprising
administrating to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising
mesenchymal precursor cells (MPCs) and a prostacyclin. Also provided a method for
treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to
the subject a prostacyclin and a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a MSC-conditioned culture
medium or administering to the subject a MSC or a MSC-conditioned culture medium that
has treated with prostacyclin. Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for such treatments are
also provided.
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

  TREATMENT OF PULMONARY ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION WITH
                                     MESENCHYMAL STEM CELLS
                                CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/678,207,
filed on August 1, 2012, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/750,458, filed on January
9, 2013, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[0001a]           The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
Application No. 2013296611 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present
specification.
                                      BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          The present application relates to the use of mesenchymal stem cells in treatment of
vasculopathy, including pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and other types of
pulmonary hypertension, peripheral vascular disease (PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI),
coronary artery disease, diabetic vasculopathy, etc.
[0003]          Pulmonary arterial hypertension is a progressive lung disorder which, untreated,
leads to death on average within 2.8 years after being diagnosed. An increasing constriction
of the pulmonary circulation leads to increased stress on the right heart, which may develop
into right heart failure. By definition, the mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) in a case
of chronic pulmonary hypertension is >25 mmHg at rest or >30 mmHg during exertion
(normal value <20 mmHg). The pathophysiology of pulmonary arterial hypertension is
characterized by vasoconstriction and remodeling of the pulmonary vessels. In chronic PAH
there is neomuscularization of initially unmuscularized pulmonary vessels, and the vascular
muscles of the already muscularized vessels increase in circumference. This increasing
obliteration of the pulmonary circulation results in progressive stress on the right heart, which
leads to a reduced output from the right heart and eventually ends in right heart failure (M.
Humbert et al., J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 2004, 43, 13S-24S). PAH is an extremely rare disorder,
with a prevalence of 1-2 per million. The average age of the patients has been estimated to be
36 years, and only 10% of the patients were over 60 years of age. Distinctly more women
than men are affected (G. E. D'Alonzo et al., Ann. Intern. Med. 1991, 115, 343-349).
                                                      -1
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0004]          Standard therapies available on the market (e.g. prostacyclin analogues, endothelin
receptor antagonists, phosphodiesterase inhibitors) are able to improve the quality of life, the
exercise tolerance and the prognosis of the patients. The principles of these therapies are
primarily hemodynamic, influencing vessel tone but having no direct influence on the
pathogenic remodeling processes. In addition, the possibility of using these medicaments is
restricted through the sometimes serious side effects and/or complicated types of
administration. The period over which the clinical situation of the patients can be improved
or stabilized by specific monotherapy is limited. Eventually the therapy escalates and thus a
combination therapy is applied, where a plurality of medicaments must be given
concurrently. Despite all the advances in the therapy of pulmonary arterial hypertension
there is as yet no prospect of cure of this serious disorder.
[0005]          The term peripheral vascular disease (PVD) refers to damage, dysfunction or
obstruction within peripheral arteries and veins. Peripheral artery disease is the most common
form of PVD. Peripheral vascular disease is the most common disease of the arteries and is a
very common condition in the United States. It occurs mostly in people older than 50 years.
Peripheral vascular disease is a leading cause of disability among people older than 50 years,
as well as in those people with diabetes. About 10 million people in the United States have
peripheral vascular disease, which translates to about 5% of people older than 50 years. The
number of people with the condition is expected to grow as the population ages. Men are
slightly more likely than women to have peripheral vascular disease.
[0006]          Critical limb ischemia (CLI), due to advanced peripheral arterial occlusion, is
characterized by reduced blood flow and oxygen delivery at rest, resulting in muscle pain at
rest and non-healing skin ulcers or gangrene (Rissanen et al., Eur. J. Clin. Invest 31:651-666
(2001); Dormandy and Rutherford, J. Vasc. Surg. 31:S1-S296 (2000)). Critical limb
ischemia is estimated to develop in 500 to 1000 per million individuals in one year ("Second
European Consensus Document on Chronic Critical Leg Ischemia", Circulation 84(4 Suppl.)
IV 1-26 (1991)). In patients with critical limb ischemia, amputation, despite its associated
morbidity, mortality and functional implications, is often recommended as a solution against
disabling symptoms (M. R. Tyrrell et al., Br. J. Surg. 80: 177-180 (1993); M. Eneroth et al.,
Int. Orthop. 16: 383-387 (1992)). There exists no optimal medical therapy for critical limb
ischemia (Circulation 84(4 Suppl.): IV 1-26 (1991))
 [0007]         Coronary artery disease (atherosclerosis) is a progressive disease in humans wherein
one or more coronary arteries gradually become occluded through the buildup of plaque. The
                                                     -2
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

coronary arteries of patients having this disease are often treated by balloon angioplasty or
the insertion of stents to prop open the partially occluded arteries. Ultimately, these patients
are required to undergo coronary artery bypass surgery at great expense and risk.
[0008]          It has now been surprisingly found that mesenchymal stem cells and an exosome
composition thereof, when administered in combination with prostacyclin and/or epithelial
progenitor cells, can be useful in the treatment of vasculopathy, including pulmonary arterial
hypertension (PAH) and other types of pulmonary hypertension, peripheral vascular disease
(PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery disease, and diabetic vasculopathy.
[0008a]          It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art in Australia or any other country.
                                     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0009]           In one embodiment, the current invention is directed to a method for treating or
preventing vasculopathy comprising administrating to a subject in need thereof a
pharmaceutical composition comprising mesenchymal precursor cells (MPCs) and a
prostacyclin. The subject being treated can be a human being. In other embodiments, the
MPCs are genetically modified, obtained from the subject, obtained from bone marrow, or
are co-administered with endothelial progenitor cells.
[0010]          In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition further comprises at least
one pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or at least one therapeutic agent. In another
embodiment, the subject is suffering from pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), peripheral
vascular disease (PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery disease, or diabetic
vasculopathy. In other embodiments the current method reduces thrombosis in pulmonary
arteries, reduces inflammation in pulmonary arteries, reduces the proliferation of intimal
smooth muscle in pulmonary arteries, reduces the formation of plexiform lesions in
pulmonary arteries, increases the amount of nitric oxide in pulmonary arteries, increases the
amount of PGI2 in pulmonary arteries, reduces the level of Endothelin-1 in pulmonary
arteries, or reduces the amount of growth factors in pulmonary arteries. In other
embodiments, the current method promotes proper endothelial morphology in pulmonary
arteries. In other embodiments, MPCs are co-administered to the subject with at least one of
prostaglandin 12 (PGI2 ), prostacyclin analogues, phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor,
                                                       -3
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

endothelin receptor antagonist (ETRA), tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and soluble guanylate
cyclase stimulator.
[0011]           In one embodiment, the current disclosure is directed to a method for treating or
preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the subject
a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a part of a
culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC and contains one or more
component(s) of the MSC. The prostacyclin and the composition can be administered
concurrently or separately.
[0012]          In some embodiments, prior to the administration, the MSC has been in contact with
prostacyclin. Likewise, the culture medium or the MSC from which the culture medium is
obtained can be placed in contact with prostacyclin, prior to such administration.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, the method further includes such a pre-treatment step.
[0013]          Non-limiting examples of components obtained from a part of the MSC culture
include an exosome, a microvesicle, a microRNA, a messenger RNA, a non-coding RNA, a
mitochondria, a growth factor, or combinations thereof.
[0014]          Such methods, in one aspect, further entails administering to the subject an
endothelial progenitor cell (EPC). In one aspect, the EPC is obtained from the subject. In
some aspects, the EPC is transformed with a nucleic acid that increases the expression of
biological activity of a protein selected from the group consisting of endothelial nitric oxide
synthase (eNOS), heme oxygenase (HMOX1) and prostacyclin synthase (PTGIS). In one
aspect, the nucleic acid encodes the protein.
[0015]          Examples of prostacyclin include, without limitation, epoprostenol sodium,
treprostinil, beraprost, ilprost, and a PGI2 receptor agonist. In one aspect, the prostacyclin is
treprostinil or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof.
[0016]          Further provided, in embodiment, is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a
mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC
and contains compounds released from the MSC and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
In some aspects, the composition further comprises an endothelial progenitor cell (EPC).
[0017]          Yet another embodiment provides a method for preparing a composition comprising
a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC
and contains compounds released from the MSC for in vivo delivery, comprising contacting
                                                    -4
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

the MSC with a prostacyclin. Treated composition obtainable by such a method is also
provided.
[0018]          In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition further comprises at least
one pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or at least one therapeutic agent. In another
embodiment, the subject is suffering from vasculopathy, such as pulmonary arterial
hypertension (PAH), peripheral vascular disease (PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI),
coronary artery disease, or diabetic vasculopathy. In other embodiments the current method
reduces thrombosis in pulmonary arteries, reduces inflammation in pulmonary arteries,
reduces the proliferation of intimal smooth muscle in pulmonary arteries, reduces the
formation of plexiform lesions in pulmonary arteries, increases the amount of nitric oxide in
pulmonary arteries, increases the amount of PGI 2 in pulmonary arteries, reduces the level of
Endothelin- 1 in pulmonary arteries, or reduces the amount of growth factors in pulmonary
arteries. In other embodiments, the current method promotes proper endothelial morphology
in pulmonary arteries.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS
[0019]          Unless otherwise specified, "a" or "an" means "one or more."
[0019a]          In the claims which follow and in the description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
''comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition
of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
[0020]          Unless specifically defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
shall be taken to have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in
the art (e.g., in stem cell biology, cell culture, molecular genetics, immunology,
immunohistochemistry, protein chemistry, and biochemistry).
[0021]          Unless otherwise indicated, the recombinant protein, cell culture, and
immunological techniques utilized in the present invention are standard procedures, well
known to those skilled in the art. Such techniques are described and explained throughout the
literature in sources such as, J. Perbal, A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning, John Wiley
and Sons (1984), J. Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring
Harbour Laboratory Press (1989), T. A. Brown (editor), Essential Molecular Biology: A
                                                     -5
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

Practical Approach, Volumes 1 and 2, IRL Press (1991), D. M. Glover and B. D. Hames
(editors), DNA Cloning: A Practical Approach, Volumes 1-4, IRL Press (1995 and 1996),
and F. M. Ausubel et al. (editors), Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Pub.
Associates and Wiley-Interscience (1988, including all updates until present), Ed Harlow and
David Lane (editors) Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory,
(1988), and J. E. Coligan et al. (editors) Current Protocols in Immunology, John Wiley &
Sons (including all updates until present), and are incorporated herein by reference.
[0022]          As used herein, the term "subject" (also referred to herein as a "patient") includes
warm-blooded animals, preferably mammals, including humans. In a preferred embodiment,
the subject is a primate. In an even more preferred embodiment, the subject is a human.
[0023]          As used herein the terms "treating", "treat" or "treatment" include administering a
therapeutically effective amount of cells as defined herein sufficient to reduce or eliminate at
least one symptom of vasculopathy.
[0024]          As used herein the terms "preventing", "prevent" or "prevention" include
administering a therapeutically effective amount of cells as defined herein sufficient to stop
or hinder the development of at least one symptom of vasculopathy.
[0025]          As used herein, the term "stem cell" refers to self-renewing cells that are capable of
giving rise to phenotypically and genotypically identical daughters as well as at least one
other final cell type (e.g., terminally differentiated cells). The term "stem cells" includes
totipotential, pluripotential and multipotential cells, as well as progenitor and/or precursor
cells derived from the differentiation thereof.
[0026]          As used herein, the term "totipotent cell" or "totipotential cell" refers to a cell that is
able to form a complete embryo (e.g., a blastocyst).
[0027]          As used herein, the term "pluripotent cell" or "pluripotential cell" refers to a cell that
has complete differentiation versatility, i.e., the capacity to grow into any of the mammalian
body's approximately 260 cell types. A pluripotent cell can be self-renewing, and can remain
dormant or quiescent within a tissue.
[0028]          By "multipotential cell" or "multipotent cell" we mean a cell which is capable of
giving rise to any of several mature cell types. As used herein, this phrase encompasses adult
or embryonic stem cells and progenitor cells, and multipotential progeny of these cells.
Unlike a pluripotent cell, a multipotent cell does not have the capacity to form all of the cell
types.
                                                     -6
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0029]          As used herein, the term "progenitor cell" refers to a cell that is committed to
differentiate into a specific type of cell or to form a specific type of tissue.
[0030]          Mesenchymal precursor cells (MPCs) are cells found in bone marrow, blood, dental
pulp cells, adipose tissue, skin, spleen, pancreas, brain, kidney, liver, heart, retina, brain, hair
follicles, intestine, lung, lymph node, thymus, bone, ligament, tendon, skeletal muscle,
dermis, and periosteum; and are capable of differentiating into different germ lines such as
mesoderm, endoderm and ectoderm. Thus, MPCs are capable of differentiating into a large
number of cell types including, but not limited to, adipose, osseous, cartilaginous, elastic,
muscular, and fibrous connective tissues. The specific lineage-commitment and
differentiation pathway which these cells enter depends upon various influences from
mechanical influences and/or endogenous bioactive factors, such as growth factors,
cytokines, and/or local microenvironmental conditions established by host tissues. MPCs are
thus non-hematopoietic progenitor cells which divide to yield daughter cells that are either
stem cells or are precursor cells which in time will irreversibly differentiate to yield a
phenotypic cell.
[0031]          In a preferred embodiment, cells used in the methods of the invention are enriched
from a sample obtained from a subject. The terms 'enriched', 'enrichment' or variations
thereof are used herein to describe a population of cells in which the proportion of one
particular cell type or the proportion of a number of particular cell types is increased when
compared with the untreated population.
[0032]          In a preferred embodiment, the cells used in the present invention are TNAP,
STRO-17 , VCAM-17 , THY-I, STRO-2*, CD45+, CD146*, 3G5+ or any combination thereof.
[0033]          When we refer to a cell as being "positive" for a given marker it may be either a low
(lo or dim) or a high (bright, bri) expresser of that marker depending on the degree to which
the marker is present on the cell surface, where the terms relate to intensity of fluorescence or
other colour used in the colour sorting process of the cells. The distinction of lo (or dim or
dull) and bri will be understood in the context of the marker used on a particular cell
population being sorted. When we refer herein to a cell as being "negative" for a given
marker, it does not mean that the marker is not expressed at all by that cell. It means that the
marker is expressed at a relatively very low level by that cell, and that it generates a very low
signal when detectably labelled.
[0034]          When used herein the term "TNAP" is intended to encompass all isoforms of tissue
non-specific alkaline phosphatase. For example, the term encompasses the liver isoform
                                                    -7
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

(LAP), the bone isoform (BAP) and the kidney isoform (KAP). In a preferred embodiment,
the TNAP is BAP. In a particularly preferred embodiment, TNAP as used herein refers to a
molecule which can bind the STRO-3 antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line
deposited with ATCC on 19 Dec. 2005 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty under
deposit accession number PTA-7282.
[0035]          It is preferred that a significant proportion of the multipotential cells are capable of
differentiation into at least two different germ lines. Non-limiting examples of the lineages to
which the multipotential cells may be committed include vascular endothelial cells; smooth
and skeletal muscle cells; bone precursor cells; hepatocyte progenitors, which are multipotent
for bile duct epithelial cells and hepatocytes; neural restricted cells, which can generate glial
cell precursors that progress to oligodendrocytes and astrocytes; neuronal precursors that
progress to neurons; precursors for cardiac muscle and cardiomyocytes, glucose-responsive
insulin secreting pancreatic beta cell lines. Other lineages include, but are not limited to,
odontoblasts, dentin-producing cells and chondrocytes, and precursor cells of the following:
retinal pigment epithelial cells, fibroblasts, skin cells such as keratinocytes, dendritic cells,
hair follicle cells, renal duct epithelial cells, testicular progenitors, tendon, ligament,
cartilage, adipocyte, fibroblast, marrow stroma, cardiac muscle, smooth muscle, skeletal
muscle, pericyte, vascular, epithelial, glial, neuronal, astrocyte and oligodendrocyte cells.
 [0036]         In one embodiment, the "multipotential cells" are not capable of giving rise, upon
culturing, to hematopoietic cells.
[0037]          Stem cells useful for the methods of the invention may be derived from adult tissue,
an embryo, or a fetus. The term "adult" is used in its broadest sense to include a postnatal
subject. In a preferred embodiment, the term "adult" refers to a subject that is postpubertal.
The term, "adult" as used herein can also include cord blood taken from a female.
[0038]          The present invention also relates to use of progeny cells (which can also be referred
to as expanded cells) which are produced from the in vitro culture of the stem cells described
herein. Expanded cells of the invention may have a wide variety of phenotypes depending on
the culture conditions (including the number and/or type of stimulatory factors in the culture
medium), the number of passages and the like. In certain embodiments, the progeny cells are
obtained after about 2, about 3, about 4, about 5, about 6, about 7, about 8, about 9, or about
 10 passages from the parental population. However, the progeny cells may be obtained after
any number of passages from the parental population.
                                                       -8
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0039]          The progeny cells may be obtained by culturing in any suitable medium. The term
"medium", as used in reference to a cell culture, includes the components of the environment
surrounding the cells. Media may be solid, liquid, gaseous or a mixture of phases and
materials. Media include liquid growth media as well as liquid media that do not sustain cell
growth. Media also include gelatinous media such as agar, agarose, gelatin and collagen
matrices. The term "medium" also refers to material that is intended for use in a cell culture,
even if it has not yet been contacted with cells. In other words, a nutrient rich liquid prepared
for bacterial culture is a medium.
[0040]          In an embodiment, progeny cells useful for the methods of the invention are
obtained by isolating TNAP+ cells from bone marrow using magnetic beads labelled with the
STRO-3 antibody, and plated in a-MEM supplemented with 20% fetal calf serum, 2 mM L
glutamine and 100 um L-ascorbate-2-phosphate.
[0041]          In one embodiment, such expanded cells (at least after 5 passages) can be TNAP-,
CC9+, HLA class I+, HLA class II-, CD14-, CD19-; CD3-, CD11a-c-, CD3 1-, CD86- and/or
CD80-. However, it is possible that under different culturing conditions to those described
herein that the expression of different markers may vary. Also, whilst cells of these
phenotypes may predominate in the expended cell population it does not mean that there is
not a minor proportion of the cells that do not have this phenotype(s) (for example, a small
percentage of the expanded cells may be CC9-). In one preferred embodiment, expanded cells
of the invention still have the capacity to differentiate into different cell types.
[0042]          In one embodiment, an expended cell population used in the methods of the
invention comprises cells wherein at least 25%, more preferably at least 50%, of the cells are
CC9+.
[0043]          In another embodiment, an expended cell population used in the methods of the
invention comprises cells wherein at least 40%, more preferably at least 45%, of the cells are
STRO-1+.
[0044]          In a further embodiment, the progeny cells may express markers selected from the
group consisting of LFA-3, THY-1, VCAM-1, PECAM-1, P-selectin, L-selectin, 3G5,
CD49a/CD49b/CD29, CD49c/CD29, CD49d/CD29, CD29, CD18, CD61, integrin beta, 6-19,
thrombomodulin, CD10, CD13, SCF, PDGF-R, EGF-R, IGF1-R, NGF-R, FGF-R, Leptin-R,
(STRO-2=Leptin-R), RANKL, STRO-lbright and CD146 or any combination of these
markers.
                                                   -9
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0045]          In one embodiment, the progeny cells are Multipotential Expanded MPC Progeny
(MEMPs) as defined in WO 2006/032092. Methods for preparing enriched populations of
MPC from which progeny may be derived are described in WO 01/04268 and WO
2004/085630. In an in vitro context MPCs will rarely be present as an absolutely pure
preparation and will generally be present with other cells that are tissue specific committed
cells (TSCCs). WO 01/04268 refers to harvesting such cells from bone marrow at purity
levels of about 0.1% to 90%. The population comprising MPC from which progeny are
derived may be directly harvested from a tissue source, or alternatively it may be a
population that has already been expanded ex vivo.
[0046]          For example, the progeny may be obtained from a harvested, unexpanded,
population of substantially purified MPC, comprising at least about 0.1, 1, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40,
50, 60, 70, 80 or 95% of total cells of the population in which they are present. This level
may be achieved, for example, by selecting for cells that are positive for at least one marker
selected from the group consisting of TNAP, STRO-1 I, 3G5+, VCAM-1, THY-1, CD146
and STRO-2.
[0047]          The MPC starting population may be derived from any one or more tissue types set
out in WO 01/04268 or WO 2004/085630, namely bone marrow, dental pulp cells, adipose
tissue and skin, or perhaps more broadly from adipose tissue, teeth, dental pulp, skin, liver,
kidney, heart, retina, brain, hair follicles, intestine, lung, spleen, lymph node, thymus,
pancreas, bone, ligament, bone marrow, tendon and skeletal muscle.
[0048]          MEMPS can be distinguished from freshly harvested MPCs in that they are positive
for the marker STRO-Ibri and negative for the marker Alkaline phosphatase (ALP). In
contrast, freshly isolated MPCs are positive for both STRO-l br' and ALP. In a preferred
embodiment of the present invention, at least 15%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 7 0%, 80%,
90% or 95% of the administered cells have the phenotype STRO-lbri, ALP-. In a further
preferred embodiment the MEMPS are positive for one or more of the markers Ki67, CD44
and/or CD49c/CD29, VLA-3, &JB. In yet a further preferred embodiment the             MEMPs do
not exhibit TERT activity and/or are negative for the marker CD 18.
 [0049]         In one embodiment, the cells are taken from a patient with vasculopathy, cultured in
vitro using standard techniques and administered to a patient as an autologous or allogeneic
transplant. In an alternative embodiment, cells of one or more of the established human cell
lines are used. In another useful embodiment of the invention, cells of a non-human animal
(or if the patient is not a human, from another species) are used.
                                                    -10
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0050]          The invention can be practised using cells from any non-human animal species,
including but not limited to non-human primate cells, ungulate, canine, feline, lagomorph,
rodent, avian, and fish cells. Primate cells with which the invention may be performed
include but are not limited to cells of chimpanzees, baboons, cynomolgus monkeys, and any
other New or Old World monkeys. Ungulate cells with which the invention may be
performed include but are not limited to cells of bovines, porcines, ovines, caprines, equines,
buffalo and bison. Rodent cells with which the invention may be performed include but are
not limited to mouse, rat, guinea pig, hamster and gerbil cells. Examples of lagomorph
species with which the invention may be performed include domesticated rabbits, jack
rabbits, hares, cottontails, snowshoe rabbits, and pikas. Chickens (Gallus gallus) are an
example of an avian species with which the invention may be performed.
[0051]          Cells useful for the methods of the invention may be stored before use. Methods and
protocols for preserving and storing of eukaryotic cells, and in particular mammalian cells,
are well known in the art (cf., for example, Pollard, J. W. and Walker, J. M. (1997) Basic
Cell Culture Protocols, Second Edition, Humana Press, Totowa, N.J.; Freshney, R. I. (2000)
Culture of Animal Cells, Fourth Edition, Wiley-Liss, Hoboken, N.J.). Any method
maintaining the biological activity of the isolated stem cells such as mesenchymal
stem/progenitor cells, or progeny thereof, may be utilized in connection with the present
invention. In one preferred embodiment, the cells are maintained and stored by using cryo
preservation.
[0052]          Cells useful for the methods of the invention can be obtained using a variety of
techniques. For example, a number of cell-sorting techniques by which cells are physically
separated by reference to a property associated with the cell-antibody complex, or a label
attached to the antibody can be used. This label may be a magnetic particle or a fluorescent
molecule. The antibodies may be cross-linked such that they form aggregates of multiple
cells, which are separable by their density. Alternatively the antibodies may be attached to a
stationary matrix, to which the desired cells adhere.
[0053]          In a preferred embodiment, an antibody (or other binding agent) that binds TNAP+,
STRO-1+, VCAM-1+, THY-1+, STRO-2+, 3G5+, CD45+, CD146+ is used to isolate the
cells. More preferably, an antibody (or other binding agent) that binds TNAP+ or STRO-1+
is used to isolate the cells.
[0054]          Various methods of separating antibody-bound cells from unbound cells are known.
For example, the antibody bound to the cell (or an anti-isotype antibody) can be labelled and
                                                     -11
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

then the cells separated by a mechanical cell sorter that detects the presence of the label.
Fluorescence-activated cell sorters are well known in the art. In one embodiment, anti-TNAP
antibodies and/or an STRO-1 antibodies are attached to a solid support. Various solid
supports are known to those of skill in the art, including, but not limited to, agarose beads,
polystyrene beads, hollow fiber membranes, polymers, and plastic petri dishes. Cells that are
bound by the antibody can be removed from the cell suspension by simply physically
separating the solid support from the cell suspension.
[0055]          Super paramagnetic microparticles may be used for cell separations. For example,
the microparticles may be coated with anti-TNAP antibodies and/or STRO-1 antibodies. The
antibody-tagged, super paramagnetic microparticles may then be incubated with a solution
containing the cells of interest. The microparticles bind to the surfaces of the desired stem
cells, and these cells can then be collected in a magnetic-field.
[0056]          In another example, the cell sample is allowed to physically contact, for example, a
solid phase-linked anti-TNAP monoclonal antibodies and/or anti-STRO-1 monoclonal
antibodies. The solid-phase linking can comprise, for instance, adsorbing the antibodies to a
plastic, nitrocellulose, or other surface. The antibodies can also be adsorbed on to the walls of
the large pores (sufficiently large to permit flow-through of cells) of a hollow fiber
membrane. Alternatively, the antibodies can be covalently linked to a surface or bead, such as
Pharmacia Sepharose 6 MB macrobeads. The exact conditions and duration of incubation for
the solid phase-linked antibodies with the stem cell containing suspension will depend upon
several factors specific to the system employed. The selection of appropriate conditions,
however, is well within the skill of the art.
 [0057]         The unbound cells are then eluted or washed away with physiologic buffer after
allowing sufficient time for the stem cells to be bound. The unbound cells can be recovered
and used for other purposes or discarded after appropriate testing has been done to ensure that
the desired separation had been achieved. The bound cells are then separated from the solid
phase by any appropriate method, depending mainly upon the nature of the solid phase and
the antibody. For example, bound cells can be eluted from a plastic petri dish by vigorous
agitation. Alternatively, bound cells can be eluted by enzymatically "nicking" or digesting an
enzyme-sensitive "spacer" sequence between the solid phase and the antibody. Spacers bound
to agarose beads are commercially available from, for example, Pharmacia.
                                                    -12
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0058]          The eluted, enriched fraction of cells may then be washed with a buffer by
centrifugation and said enriched fraction may be cryopreserved in a viable state for later use
according to conventional technology, culture expanded and/or introduced into the patient.
[0059]          Typically, the cells are administered in a pharmaceutical composition comprising at
least one pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier. The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable"
refers to those compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms which are, within
the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human
beings and animals without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response, or other problem
or complication, commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. The phrase
"pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier" as used herein means a pharmaceutically-acceptable
material, composition or vehicle, such as a liquid or solid filler, diluent, excipient, or solvent
encapsulating material.
[0060]          Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include saline, aqueous buffer solutions,
solvents and/or dispersion media. The use of such carriers are well known in the art. The
solution is preferably sterile and fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. Preferably,
the solution is stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and preserved against
the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi through the use of, for
example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like.
[0061]          Some examples of materials and solutions which can serve as pharmaceutically
acceptable carriers include: (1) sugars, such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; (2) starches,
such as corn starch and potato starch; (3) cellulose, and its derivatives, such as sodium
carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate; (4) powdered tragacanth; (5)
malt; (6) gelatin; (7) talc; (8) excipients, such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes; (9) oils,
such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and soybean
oil; (10) glycols, such as propylene glycol; (11) polyols, such as glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol
and polyethylene glycol; (12) esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; (13) agar; (14)
buffering agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; (15) alginic acid;
(16) pyrogen-free water; (17) isotonic saline; (18) Ringer's solution; (19) ethyl alcohol; (20)
pH buffered solutions; (21) polyesters, polycarbonates and/or polyanhydrides; and (22) other
non-toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations.
[0062]          The pharmaceutical compositions useful for the methods of the invention may
comprise a polymeric carrier or extracellular matrix.
                                                     -13
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0063]          A variety of biological or synthetic solid matrix materials (i.e., solid support
matrices, biological adhesives or dressings, and biological/medical scaffolds) are suitable for
use in this invention. The matrix material is preferably medically acceptable for use in in vivo
applications. Non-limiting examples of such medically acceptable and/or biologically or
physiologically acceptable or compatible materials include, but are not limited to, solid
matrix materials that are absorbable and/or non-absorbable, such as small intestine
submucosa (SIS), e.g., porcine-derived (and other SIS sources); crosslinked or non
crosslinked alginate, hydrocolloid, foams, collagen gel, collagen sponge, polyglycolic acid
(PGA) mesh, polyglactin (PGL) mesh, fleeces, foam dressing, bioadhesives (e.g., fibrin glue
and fibrin gel) and dead de-epidermized skin equivalents in one or more layers.
[0064]          Fibrin glues are a class of surgical sealants which have been used in various clinical
settings. As the skilled address would be aware, numerous sealants are useful in compositions
for use in the methods of the invention. However, a preferred embodiment of the invention
relates to the use of fibrin glues with the cells described herein.
[0065]          When used herein the term "fibrin glue" refers to the insoluble matrix formed by the
cross-linking of fibrin polymers in the presence of calcium ions. The fibrin glue may be
formed from fibrinogen, or a derivative or metabolite thereof, fibrin (soluble monomers or
polymers) and/or complexes thereof derived from biological tissue or fluid which forms a
fibrin matrix. Alternatively, the fibrin glue may be formed from fibrinogen, or a derivative or
metabolite thereof, or fibrin, produced by recombinant DNA technology.
[0066]          The fibrin glue may also be formed by the interaction of fibrinogen and a catalyst of
fibrin glue formation (such as thrombin and/or Factor XIII). As will be appreciated by those
skilled in the art, fibrinogen is proteolytically cleaved in the presence of a catalyst (such as
thrombin) and converted to a fibrin monomer. The fibrin monomers may then form polymers
which may cross-link to form a fibrin glue matrix. The cross-linking of fibrin polymers may
be enhanced by the presence of a catalyst such as Factor XIII. The catalyst of fibrin glue
formation may be derived from blood plasma, cryoprecipitate or other plasma fractions
containing fibrinogen or thrombin. Alternatively, the catalyst may be produced by
recombinant DNA technology.
[0067]          The rate at which the clot forms is dependent upon the concentration of thrombin
mixed with fibrinogen. Being an enzyme dependent reaction, the higher the temperature (up
to 37.degree. C.) the faster the clot formation rate. The tensile strength of the clot is
dependent upon the concentration of fibrinogen used.
                                                      -14
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0068]          Use of fibrin glue and methods for its preparation and use are described in U.S. Pat.
No. 5,643,192. U.S. Pat. No. 5,643,192 discloses the extraction of fibrinogen and thrombin
components from a single donor, and the combination of only these components for use as a
fibrin glue. U.S. Pat. No. 5,651,982, describes another preparation and method of use for
fibrin glue. U.S. Pat. No. 5,651,982, provides a fibrin glue with liposomes for use as a topical
sealant in mammals.
[0069]          Several publications describe the use of fibrin glue for the delivery of therapeutic
agents. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,983,393 discloses a composition for use as an intra
vaginal insert comprising agarose, agar, saline solution glycosaminoglycans, collagen, fibrin
and an enzyme. Further, U.S. Pat. No. 3,089,815 discloses an injectable pharmaceutical
preparation composed of fibrinogen and thrombin and U.S. Pat. No. 6,468,527 discloses a
fibrin glue which facilitates the delivery of various biological and non-biological agents to
specific sites within the body. Such procedures can be used in the methods of the invention.
[0070]          Suitable polymeric carriers include porous meshes or sponges formed of synthetic
or natural polymers, as well as polymer solutions. One form of matrix is a polymeric mesh or
sponge; the other is a polymeric hydrogel. Natural polymers that can be used include proteins
such as collagen, albumin, and fibrin; and polysaccharides such as alginate and polymers of
hyaluronic acid. Synthetic polymers include both biodegradable and non-biodegradable
polymers. Examples of biodegradable polymers include polymers of hydroxy acids such as
polylactic acid (PLA), polyglycolic acid (PGA), and polylactic acid-glycolic acid (PLGA),
polyorthoesters, polyanhydrides, polyphosphazenes, and combinations thereof. Non
biodegradable polymers include polyacrylates, polymethacrylates, ethylene vinyl acetate, and
polyvinyl alcohols.
[0071]          Polymers that can form ionic or covalently crosslinked hydrogels which are
malleable are used to encapsulate cells. A hydrogel is a substance formed when an organic
polymer (natural or synthetic) is cross-linked via covalent, ionic, or hydrogen bonds to create
a three-dimensional open-lattice structure which entraps water molecules to form a gel.
Examples of materials which can be used to form a hydrogel include polysaccharides such as
alginate, polyphosphazines, and polyacrylates, which are crosslinked ionically, or block
copolymers such as Pluronics.TM. or Tetronics.TM., polyethylene oxide-polypropylene
glycol block copolymers which are crosslinked by temperature or pH, respectively. Other
materials include proteins such as fibrin, polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, hyaluronic
acid and collagen.
                                                    -15
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0072]          In general, these polymers are at least partially soluble in aqueous solutions, such as
water, buffered salt solutions, or aqueous alcohol solutions, that have charged side groups, or
a monovalent ionic salt thereof. Examples of polymers with acidic side groups that can be
reacted with cations are poly(phosphazenes), poly(acrylic acids), poly(methacrylic acids),
copolymers of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, poly(vinyl acetate), and sulfonated
polymers, such as sulfonated polystyrene. Copolymers having acidic side groups formed by
reaction of acrylic or methacrylic acid and vinyl ether monomers or polymers can also be
used. Examples of acidic groups are carboxylic acid groups, sulfonic acid groups,
halogenated (preferably fluorinated) alcohol groups, phenolic OH groups, and acidic OH
groups. Examples of polymers with basic side groups that can be reacted with anions are
poly(vinyl amines), poly(vinyl pyridine), poly(vinyl imidazole), and some imino substituted
polyphosphazenes. The ammonium or quaternary salt of the polymers can also be formed
from the backbone nitrogens or pendant imino groups. Examples of basic side groups are
amino and imino groups.
[0073]          Further, a composition used for a method of the invention may comprise at least one
therapeutic agent. For example, the composition may contain an analgesic to aid in treating
inflammation or pain, or an anti-infective agent to prevent infection of the site treated with
the composition. More specifically, non-limiting examples of useful therapeutic agents
include the following therapeutic categories: analgesics, such as nonsteroidal anti
inflammatory drugs, opiate agonists and salicylates; anti-infective agents, such as
antihelmintics, antianaerobics, antibiotics, aminoglycoside antibiotics, antifungal antibiotics,
cephalosporin antibiotics, macrolide antibiotics, miscellaneous .beta.-lactam antibiotics,
penicillin antibiotics, quinolone antibiotics, sulfonamide antibiotics, tetracycline antibiotics,
antimycobacterials, antituberculosis antimycobacterials, antiprotozoals, antimalarial
antiprotozoals, antiviral agents, anti-retroviral agents, scabicides, anti-inflammatory agents,
corticosteroid anti-inflammatory agents, antipruritics/local anesthetics, topical anti-infectives,
antifungal topical anti-infectives, antiviral topical anti-infectives; electrolytic and renal
agents, such as acidifying agents, alkalinizing agents, diuretics, carbonic anhydrase inhibitor
diuretics, loop diuretics, osmotic diuretics, potassium-sparing diuretics, thiazide diuretics,
electrolyte replacements, and uricosuric agents; enzymes, such as pancreatic enzymes and
thrombolytic enzymes; gastrointestinal agents, such as antidiarrheals, gastrointestinal anti
inflammatory agents, gastrointestinal anti-inflammatory agents, antacid anti-ulcer agents,
gastric acid-pump inhibitor anti-ulcer agents, gastric mucosal anti-ulcer agents, H2-blocker
                                                     -16
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

anti-ulcer agents, cholelitholytic agent's, digestants, emetics, laxatives and stool softeners,
and prokinetic agents; general anesthetics, such as inhalation anesthetics, halogenated
inhalation anesthetics, intravenous anesthetics, barbiturate intravenous anesthetics,
benzodiazepine intravenous anesthetics, and opiate agonist intravenous anesthetics;
hormones and hormone modifiers, such as abortifacients, adrenal agents, corticosteroid
adrenal agents, androgens, anti-androgens, immunobiologic agents, such as
immunoglobulins, immunosuppressives, toxoids, and vaccines; local anesthetics, such as
amide local anesthetics and ester local anesthetics; musculoskeletal agents, such as anti-gout
anti-inflammatory agents, corticosteroid anti-inflammatory agents, gold compound anti
inflammatory agents, immunosuppressive anti-inflammatory agents, nonsteroidal anti
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), salicylate anti-inflammatory agents, minerals; and vitamins,
such as vitamin A, vitamin B, vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin E, and vitamin K.
[0074]          Compositions useful for the methods of the present invention may include cell
culture components, e.g., culture media including amino acids, metals, coenzyme factors, as
well as small populations of other cells, e.g., some of which may arise by subsequent
differentiation of the stem cells.
[0075]          Compositions useful for the methods of the present invention may be prepared, for
example, by sedimenting out the subject cells from the culture medium and re-suspending
them in the desired solution or material. The cells may be sedimented and/or changed out of
the culture medium, for example, by centrifugation, filtration, ultrafiltration, etc.
[0076]          The skilled artisan can readily determine the amount of cells and optional carrier(s)
in compositions and to be administered in methods of the invention. In an embodiment, any
additives (in addition to the active cell(s)) are present in an amount of 0.001 to 50% (weight)
solution in phosphate buffered saline, and the active ingredient is present in the order of
micrograms to milligrams, such as about 0.0001 to about 5 wt %, preferably about 0.0001 to
about 1 wt %, still more preferably about 0.0001 to about 0.05 wt % or about 0.001 to about
20 wt %, preferably about 0.01 to about 10 wt %, and still more preferably about 0.05 to
about 5 wt %. Of course, for any composition to be administered to an animal or human, and
for any particular method of administration, it is preferred to determine therefore: toxicity,
such as by determining the lethal dose (LD) and LD50 in a suitable animal model e.g., rodent
such as mouse; and, the dosage of the composition(s), concentration of components therein
and timing of administering the composition(s), which elicit a suitable response. Such
determinations do not require undue experimentation from the knowledge of the skilled
                                                     -17
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

artisan, this disclosure and the documents cited herein. And, the time for sequential
administrations can be ascertained without undue experimentation.
[0077]          Compositions useful for the methods of the present invention can be administered
via, inter alia, localized injection, including catheter administration, systemic injection,
localized injection, intravenous injection, intrauterine injection or parenteral administration.
When administering a therapeutic composition described herein (e.g., a pharmaceutical
composition), it will generally be formulated in a unit dosage injectable form (solution,
suspension, emulsion).
[0078]          In one embodiment, the cells used in the methods of the invention are genetically
modified. Preferably, the cells are genetically modified to produce a heterologous protein.
Typically, the cells will be genetically modified such that the heterologous protein is secreted
from the cells. However, in an embodiment the cells can be modified to express a functional
non-protein encoding polynucleotide such as dsRNA (typically for RNA silencing), an
antisense oligonucleotide or a catalytic nucleic acid (such as a ribozyme or DNAzyme).
[0079]          Genetically modified cells may be cultured in the presence of at least one cytokine
in an amount sufficient to support growth of the modified cells. The genetically modified
cells thus obtained may be used immediately (e.g., in transplant), cultured and expanded in
vitro, or stored for later uses. The modified cells may be stored by methods well known in the
art, e.g., frozen in liquid nitrogen.
[0080]          Genetic modification as used herein encompasses any genetic modification method
which involves introduction of an exogenous or foreign polynucleotide into a cell described
herein or modification of an endogenous gene within the cell. Genetic modification includes
but is not limited to transduction (viral mediated transfer of host DNA from a host or donor
to a recipient, either in vitro or in vivo), transfection (transformation of cells with isolated
viral DNA genomes), liposome mediated transfer, electroporation, calcium phosphate
transfection or coprecipitation and others. Methods of transduction include direct co-culture
of cells with producer cells (Bregni et al., 1992) or culturing with viral supernatant alone with
or without appropriate growth factors and polycations.
[0081]          An exogenous polynucleotide is preferably introduced to the cell in a vector. The
vector preferably includes the necessary elements for the transcription and translation of the
inserted coding sequence. Methods used to construct such vectors are well known in the art.
For example, techniques for constructing suitable expression vectors are described in detail in
Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press, N.Y.
                                                   -18
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

(3rd Ed., 2000); and Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley &
Sons, Inc., New York (1999).
[0082]          Vectors may include, but are not limited to, viral vectors, such as retroviruses,
adenoviruses, adeno-associated viruses, and herpes simplex viruses; cosmids; plasmid
vectors; synthetic vectors; and other recombination vehicles typically used in the art. Vectors
containing both a promoter and a cloning site into which a polynucleotide can be operatively
linked are well known in the art. Such vectors are capable of transcribing RNA in vitro or in
vivo, and are commercially available from sources such as Stratagene (La Jolla, Calif.) and
Promega Biotech (Madison, Wis.). Specific examples include, pSG, pSV2CAT, pXtl from
Stratagene; and pMSG, pSVL, pBPV and pSVK3 from Pharmacia.
[0083]          Preferred vectors include retroviral vectors (see, Coffin et al., "Retroviruses",
Chapter 9 pp; 437-473, Cold Springs Harbor Laboratory Press, 1997). Vectors useful in the
invention can be produced recombinantly by procedures well known in the art. For example,
W094/29438, W097/21824 and W097/21825 describe the construction of retroviral
packaging plasmids and packing cell lines. Exemplary vectors include the pCMV mammalian
expression vectors, such as pCMV6b and pCMV6c (Chiron Corp.), pSFFV-Neo, and
pBluescript-Sk+. Non-limiting examples of useful retroviral vectors are those derived from
murine, avian or primate retroviruses. Common retroviral vectors include those based on the
Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV-vector). Other MoMLV derived vectors include,
Lmily, LINGFER, MINGFR and MINT. Additional vectors include those based on Gibbon
ape leukemia virus (GAIN) and Moloney murine sarcoma virus (MOMSV) and spleen focus
forming virus (SFFV). Vectors derived from the murine stem cell virus (MESV) include
MESV-MiLy. Retroviral vectors also include vectors based on lentiviruses, and non-limiting
examples include vectors based on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1 and HIV-2).
[0084]          In producing retroviral vector constructs, the viral gag, pol and env sequences can
be removed from the virus, creating room for insertion of foreign DNA sequences. Genes
encoded by foreign DNA are usually expressed under the control a strong viral promoter in
the long terminal repeat (LTR). Selection of appropriate control regulatory sequences is
dependent on the host cell used and selection is within the skill of one in the art. Numerous
promoters are known in addition to the promoter of the LTR. Non-limiting examples include
the phage lambda PL promoter, the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate early
promoter; the U3 region promoter of the Moloney Murine Sarcoma Virus (MMSV), Rous
Sacroma Virus (RSV), or Spleen Focus Forming Virus (SFFV); Granzyme A promoter; and
                                                     -19
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

the Granzyme B promoter. Additionally inducible or multiple control elements may be used.
The selection of a suitable promoter will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
[0085]          Such a construct can be packed into viral particles efficiently if the gag, pol and env
functions are provided in trans by a packing cell line. Therefore, when the vector construct is
introduced into the packaging cell, the gag-pol and env proteins produced by the cell,
assemble with the vector RNA to produce infectious virons that are secreted into the culture
medium. The virus thus produced can infect and integrate into the DNA of the target cell, but
does not produce infectious viral particles since it is lacking essential packaging sequences.
Most of the packing cell lines currently in use have been transfected with separate plasmids,
each containing one of the necessary coding sequences, so that multiple recombination events
are necessary before a replication competent virus can be produced. Alternatively the
packaging cell line harbours a provirus. The provirus has been crippled so that although it
may produce all the proteins required to assemble infectious viruses, its own RNA cannot be
packaged into virus. RNA produced from the recombinant virus is packaged instead.
Therefore, the virus stock released from the packaging cells contains only recombinant virus.
Non-limiting examples of retroviral packaging lines include PA12, PA317, PE501, PG13,
PSI.CRIP, RDI 14, GP7C-tTA-G10, ProPak-A (PPA-6), and PT67.
[0086]          Other suitable vectors include adenoviral vectors (see, WO 95/27071) and adeno
associated viral vectors. These vectors are all well known in the art, e.g., as described in Stem
Cell Biology and Gene Therapy, eds. Quesenberry et al., John Wiley & Sons, 1998; and U.S.
Pat. Nos. 5,693,531 and 5,691,176. The use of adenovirus-derived vectors may be
advantageous under certain situation because they are not capable of infecting non-dividing
cells. Unlike retroviral DNA, the adenoviral DNA is not integrated into the genome of the
target cell. Further, the capacity to carry foreign DNA is much larger in adenoviral vectors
than retroviral vectors. The adeno-associated viral vectors are another useful delivery system.
The DNA of this virus may be integrated into non-dividing cells, and a number of
polynucleotides have been successful introduced into different cell types using adeno
associated viral vectors.
[0087]          In some embodiments, the construct or vector will include two or more heterologous
polynucleotide sequences. Preferably the additional nucleic acid sequence is a polynucleotide
which encodes a selective marker, a structural gene, a therapeutic gene, or a
cytokine/chemokine gene.
                                                    -20
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0088]          A selective marker may be included in the construct or vector for the purposes of
monitoring successful genetic modification and for selection of cells into which DNA has
been integrated. Non-limiting examples include drug resistance markers, such as G148 or
hygromycin. Additionally negative selection may be used, for example wherein the marker is
the HSV-tk gene. This gene will make the cells sensitive to agents such as acyclovir and
gancyclovir. The NeoR (neomycin/G148 resistance) gene is commonly used but any
convenient marker gene may be used whose gene sequences are not already present in the
target cell can be used. Further non-limiting examples include low-affinity Nerve Growth
Factor (NGFR), enhanced fluorescent green protein (EFGP), dihydrofolate reductase gene
(DHFR) the bacterial hisD gene, murine CD24 (HSA), murine CD8a(lyt), bacterial genes
which confer resistance to puromycin or phleomycin, and .beta.-glactosidase.
[0089]          The additional polynucleotide sequence(s) may be introduced into the cell on the
same vector or may be introduced into the host cells on a second vector. In a preferred
embodiment, a selective marker will be included on the same vector as the polynucleotide.
[0090]          The present invention also encompasses genetically modifying the promoter region
of an endogenous gene such that expression of the endogenous gene is up-regulated resulting
in the increased production of the encoded protein compared to a wild type cell.
[0091]          According to one embodiment of the present invention, the MPCs can be co
administered with at least one other medicine for PAH, which comprises prostaglandin I2
(PGI2 ), prostacyclin analogues, phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor, endothelin receptor
antagonist (ETRA), tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator.
[0092]          According to one embodiment of the present invention, the MPCs can also be co
administered with endothelial progenitor cells.
[0093]          According to one embodiment of the present invention, the method for treating PAH
may further comprises reducing thrombosis in pulmonary arteries; reducing inflammation in
pulmonary arteries; reducing the proliferation of intimal smooth muscle in pulmonary
arteries; reducing the formation of plexiform lesions in pulmonary arteries; increasing the
amount of nitric oxide in pulmonary arteries; increasing the amount of PGI2 in pulmonary
arteries; reducing the level of Endothelin-1 in pulmonary arteries; reducing the amount of
growth factors in pulmonary arteries; or promoting proper endothelial morphology in
pulmonary arteries.
[0094]          Although the foregoing refers to particular preferred embodiments, it will be
understood that the present invention is not so limited. It will occur to those of ordinary skill
                                                    -21
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

in the art that various modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments and that such
modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.
[0095]          All of the publications, patent applications and patents cited in this specification are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[0096]          In addition, it is herein discovered that both prostacyclin and mesenchymal stem
cells (MSCs) possess therapeutic activities for vasculopathy. The combination of prostacyclin
and MSCs, furthermore, produces synergistic effects. Such combination can be either co
administration, which can be concurrent or separate, of prostacyclin and MSCs to a patient,
or administration to the patient a MSC composition that has been pre-treated with a
prostacyclin.
[0097]          It is shown that MSCs can ameliorate vasculopathy in patients, and it is
contemplated that such a therapeutic effect is achieved due to MSCs' ability toimprove the
local microenvironment by delivering anti-inflammatory and pro-angiogenic factors to the
diseased area. MSCs, however, are short-lived in the body and not regenerative.
[0098]          Prostacyclin, such as treprostinil (TP), has been used for treating pulmonary arterial
hypertension (PAH) patients. In this respect, prostacyclin has been shown to possess
vasodilatory and anti-platelet aggregation activities.
[0099]          An unexpected discovery is that prostacyclin can enhance the activity of MSCs for
the treatment of vasculopathy, exhibiting synergism for such treatment. In this respect, it is
observed that MSCs enhances prostacyclin' s beneficil effect on blood vessel growth. Such
synergism is also evident when the patient is further administered with an endothelial
progenitor cell (EPC). It is therefore contemplated that prostacyclin may enhance the activity
of EPCs through MSCs. By virtue of such synergism, therefore, the combinatory use of
prostacyclin and MSC, optionally together with EPC, can lead to improved therapeutic
outcome and/or reduced need of each agent alone which, in turn, can result in reduced
adverse effects potentially caused by each agent alone, at a higher dose.
[0100]          It is further contemplated that such synergism is applicable to MSC-conditioned
culture medium. As used herein, a "MSC-conditioned culture medium" refers to a culture
medium that has been in contact with a MSC (e.g., for the purpose of culturing the MSC) and
thus contains compounds released from the MSC. Non-limiting examples of such released
compounds include exosomes or other microvesicles which can enclose messenger RNA,
                                                      -22
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

non-coding RNA, microRNAs, mitochondria, growth factors, or other types of bioactive
agents.
[0101]          A "culture medium" as used herein, encompasses (a) both a culture medium that
contains the typical components used for culturing a MSC, such as amino acids, glucose, and
various salts, with or without the MSC, and (b) a composition isolated from the culture
medium that contains compounds released from the MSC during the culturing.
[0102]          Accordingly, one embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for
treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to
the subject a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a
MSC-conditioned culture medium (collectively a "MSC composition").
[0103]          In one aspect, the prostacyclin and the MSC composition are administered
concurrently. In another aspect, the prostacyclin and the MSC composition are administered
separately. When administered separately, the prostacyclin can be administered prior to, or
following the administration of the MSC composition.
[0104]          In another embodiment, provided is a method for treating or preventing
vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof, comprising contacting a composition comprising
an isolated mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a MSC-conditioned culture medium with a
prostacyclin, and then administering the MSC composition to the subject.
[0105]          Non-limiting examples of vasculopathy include pulmonary arterial hypertension
(PAH), peripheral vascular disease (PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery
disease and diabetic vasculopathy.
Prostacyclin
[0106]          The term "prostacyclin" used herein explicitly comprises any prostaglandin I2
(PGI2), any prostacyclin analogues, and any PGI2 receptor agonists. Non-limiting examples
of prostacyclin suitable for the present technology include epoprostenol sodium (e.g.
Flolan@), treprostinil(e.g. TYVASO@, Remodulin@), ilprost (e.g. Ventavis@), and PGI 2
receptor agonist (e.g. Selexipag). In one aspect, the prostacyclin is treprostinil or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof.
                                                     -23
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs)
[0107]          Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are cells found in bone marrow, blood, dental pulp
cells, adipose tissue, skin, spleen, pancreas, brain, kidney, liver, heart, retina, brain, hair
follicles, intestine, lung, lymph node, thymus, bone, ligament, tendon, skeletal muscle,
dermis, and periosteum; and are capable of differentiating into different germ lines such as
mesoderm, endoderm and ectoderm. Thus, MSCs are capable of differentiating into a large
number of cell types including, but not limited to, adipose, osseous, cartilaginous, elastic,
muscular, and fibrous connective tissues. The specific lineage-commitment and
differentiation pathway which these cells enter depends upon various influences from
mechanical influences and/or endogenous bioactive factors, such as growth factors,
cytokines, and/or local microenvironmental conditions established by host tissues. MSCs are
thus non-hematopoietic progenitor cells which divide to yield daughter cells that are either
stem cells or are precursor cells which in time will irreversibly differentiate to yield a
phenotypic cell. Examples of MSCs include mesenchymal precursor cells (MPCs).
MSC-conditioned culture media
[0108]          It is discovered that MSCs can carry out their activities through compounds that can
be released into the extracellular environment during growth or differentiation. In some
aspects, such compounds include a microvesicle, referred to as exosome, which is between
about 30 nm and about 200 nm in diameter. Exosomes can be internalized by host cells in
vivo.
[0109]          Exosomes are vesicles derived from the multivesicular body sorting pathway.
Recent studies show that exosomes are bioactive vesicles useful for intercellular
communication and facilitation of the immunoregulatory process. MSC exosomes contain
20S proteasomes and numerous RNAs (messenger RNA, non-coding RNA, microRNA).
[0110]          In addition to exosomes, MSC also release other bioactive molecules/vesicles useful
for the purpose of the present disclosure. Such molecules and vesicles include, without
limitation, mitochondria and growth factors. Method of preparing culture media that contain
such molecules and vesicles released from MSC and further isolating particular molecules
and vesicles are known in the art. See, for instance, Hu et al., Frontiers in Genetics, 2:56, 1-9
(2012).
                                                    -24
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

Pre-treatment of MSC with prostacyclin
[0111]          In some embodiments, prior to coadministering a MSC or a MSC-conditioned
culture medium with prostacyclin to a patient, the MSC or MSC-conditioned culture medium
can be optionally pre-treated with prostacyclin. Accordingly, also provided, in one
embodiment, is a method for preparing a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or MSC-conditioned
culture medium for in vivo delivery, comprising contacting the MSC or MSC-conditioned
culture medium with a prostacyclin. Yet another embodiment provides a treated MSC or
MSC-conditioned culture medium obtainable by such a method.
[0112]          Pre-treatment of a cell or a medium with a chemical compound encompasses known
techniques. In one aspect, the prostacyclin can be added to and co-incubated with a culture
medium that contains a MSC. Optionally, however, such co-incubation can further involve
the addition of a growth factor (e.g., VEGF and Angiopoietin-1 or -2, platelet-derived growth
factor) and/or hypoxia.
[0113]          MSCs or MSC-conditioned culture media can be treated with prostacyclin in
various ways. For example, prostacyclin can be used to treat MSCs ex vivo during the
expansion of MSCs; prostacyclin can also be used to treat MSCs after administration.
According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, MSCs can be prepared from the
recipient's own blood or bone marrow. In that case, prostacyclin can also be used to treat
MSCs before they are isolated from the recipients.
Endothelial progenitor cell (EPC)
[0114]          As provided, the synergism between prostacyclin and MSCs for the treatment of
vasculopathy is also evident when a patient is further administered with an endothelial
progenitor cell (EPC). Thus, for any embodiment of the presently disclosed method, the
patient further is administered an endothelial progenitor cell (EPC).
[0115]          In some embodiments, the EPC can also be pre-treated with prostacyclin. The EPCs
treated with prostacyclin exhibit a hyperproliferative phenotype with enhanced angiogenic
properties, which are advantageous in treating vasculopathy compared to untreated EPCs.
[0116]          EPCs can be treated with prostacyclin in various ways. For example, prostacyclin
can be used to treat EPCs ex vivo during the expansion of EPCs; prostacyclin can be co
administered with EPCs to the recipient; prostacyclin can also be used to treat EPCs after
                                                   -25
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

transplantation. According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, EPCs are prepared
from the recipient's own blood or bone marrow. In that case, prostacyclin can also be used to
treat EPCs before they are isolated from the recipients.
[0117]          An EPC is an undifferentiated cell that can be induced to proliferate. EPCs are
capable of self-maintenance, such that with each cell division, at least one daughter cell will
also be an EPC cell. EPCs are capable of being expanded 100, 250, 500, 1000, 2000, 3000,
4000, 5000 or more fold.
[0118]          Phenotyping of EPCs reveals that these cells express the committed hematopoietic
marker CD45. Additionally, an EPC may be immunoreactive for VEGFR-2 and/or Tie-2.
Optionally, the EPC is immunoreactive for CD14. The EPC is a multipotent progenitor cell.
[0119]          Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) acts through specific tyrosine kinase
receptors that includes VEGFR-1 (fit-1) and VEGFR-2 (fik-1/KDR) and VEGFR-3/Flt-4
which convey signals that are essential for embryonic angiogenesis and hematopoiesis. While
VEGF binds to all three receptors, most biological functions are mediated via VEGFR-2 and
the role of VEGFR-1 is currently unknown. VEGFR3/Flt4 signaling is known to be important
for the development of lymphatic endothelial cells and VEGFR3 signaling may confer
lymphatic endothelial-like phenotypes to endothelial cells. VEGFRs relay signals for
processes essential in stimulation of vessel growth, vasorelaxation, induction of vascular
permeability, endothelial cell migration, proliferation and survival. Endothelial cells express
all different VEGF-Rs. During embryogenesis, it has been reported that a single progenitor
cell, the hemangioblast can give rise to both the hematopoietic and vascular systems.
[0120]          Tie-2 is an endothelial-specific receptor tyrosine kinase and a receptor for
angiopoietin 1. It is a type I membrane protein that is expressed predominantly in the
endothelium of actively growing blood vessels and may represent the earliest mammalian
endothelial cell lineage marker. Tie-2 is likely involved in the regulation of endothelial cell
proliferation and differentiation and may direct the special orientation of endothelial cells
during the formation of blood vessels.
[0121]          The CD14 antigen is a high affinity receptor for the complex of lipopolysaccharides
(LPS) and LPS-Binding protein (LBP). The CD14 antigen is part of the functional
heteromeric LPS receptor complex comprised of CD14, TLR4 and MD-2. CD14 is strongly
expressed on most human monocytes and macrophages in peripheral blood, other body fluids
and various tissues, such as lymph nodes and spleen. CD14 is weakly expressed on
subpopulations of human neutrophils and myeloid dendritic cells.
                                                     -26
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0122]          The CD45 antigen is a tyrosine phosphatase, also known as the leukocyte common
antigen (LCA). CD45 is present on all human cells of hematopoietic origin, except erythroid
cells, platelets and their precursor cells. The CD45 molecule is required for T cell and B cell
activation and is expressed in at least 5 isoforms, depending on the activation status of the
cell.
[0123]          VEGFR-1+, VEGFR-2+ and Tie-2+ cells constituted approximately 3.0.+-.0.2%,
0.8.+-.0.5%, 2.0.+-.0.3% of the total population of mononuclear cells in blood respectively.
CD14+/VEGFR-2+ cells constituted approximately 2.0.+-.0.5% of the total population of
monocytes and 0.08.+-.0.04% of mononuclear cells in blood.
[0124]          EPCs can be maintained in vitro in long-term cultures. The EPCs are capable of
being passed in culture 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or more times.
[0125]          EPCs comprise endothelial colony-forming cells, typically developed after 1-3
weeks of cell culture. Endothelial colony-forming cells have the characteristics of precursor
cells committed to the endothelial lineage and are capable of merging into neovessels,
according to Smardja et al., Angiogenesis 14(1):17-27 (2011).
[0126]          The isolation, purification, ex vivo culturing and characterizing of EPCs are
described in Hill et al, N. Engl. J. Med. 348:593-600 (2003), Assmus et al., Circulation
 106:3009-16 (2002), Wang et al., J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 49:1566-71 (2007), and Kalka et al.,
P.N.A.S. 97:3422-7 (2000), the content of which are hereby incorporated by reference in
their entireties. Further, the isolation, purification, ex vivo culturing and characterizing of
endothelial colony-forming cells are described in Yoder et al., Blood 109:1801-1809 (2007),
Ingram et al., Blood 104:2752-2760 (2004), and Smardja et al., Angiogenesis 14(1):17-27
(2011), the content of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[0127]          For example, the population of cells are isolated by means of positive selection, or
by a mixture of both positive and negative selection in either order. The population of
progenitor cells is purified. A purified population of EPCs contains a significantly higher
proportion of EPCs than the crude population of cells from which the cells are isolated.
[0128]          For example, the purification procedure should lead at least to a five-fold increase,
preferably at least a ten-fold increase, more preferably at least a fifteen fold increase, most
preferably at least a twenty fold increase, and optimally at least a twenty-five fold increase in
EPCs with respect to the total population. The purified population of EPC should include at
least 15%, preferably at least 20%, more preferably at least 25%, most preferably at least
35%, and optimally at least 50% of EPCs.
                                                     -27
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0129]          The methods described herein can lead to mixtures comprising up to 75%,
preferably up to 80%, more preferably up to 85%, most preferably up to 90% and optimally
up to 95% of stem cells. Such methods are capable of producing mixtures comprising 99%,
99.90% and even 100% of EPCs. Accordingly, the purified populations of the disclosure
contain significantly higher levels of EPCs than those that exist in nature, as described above.
[0130]          The purified population of EPCs can be isolated by contacting a crude mixture of
cells containing a population of stem cells that express an antigen characteristic of the EPCs
with a molecule that binds specifically to the extracellular portion of the antigen. Such a
technique is known as positive selection. The binding of the EPCs to the molecule permit the
EPCs to be sufficiently distinguished from contaminating cells that do not express the antigen
to permit isolating the stem cells from the contaminating cells. The antigen is preferably
VEGFR, and more preferably VEGFR-2.
[0131]          The molecule used to separate progenitor cells from the contaminating cells can be
any molecule that binds specifically to the antigen that characterizes the EPCs. The molecule
can be, for example, a monoclonal antibody, a fragment of a monoclonal antibody, or, in the
case of an antigen that is a receptor, the ligand of that receptor. For example, in the case of a
VEGF receptor, such as FLK-1, the ligand is VEGF.
[0132]          The unique isolated cells of the present disclosure can be separated from other cells
by virtue of their CD45+ state and possession of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors
(VEGFR), e.g. VEGFR-2. The cells can be isolated by conventional techniques for separating
cells, such as those described in Civin, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,714,680, 4,965,204, 5,035,994, and
5,130,144, Tsukamoto et al U.S. Pat. No. 5,750,397, and Loken et al, U.S. Pat. No.
5,137,809, each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. Thus, for
example, a CD45 specific monoclonal antibody or a VEGFR-specific antibody can be
immobilized on a solid support such as nitrocellulose, agarose beads, polystyrene beads,
hollow fiber membranes, magnetic beads, and plastic petri dishes. The entire cell population
is then be passed through the solid support or added to the beads.
[0133]          Cells that are bound to the binding molecule can be removed from the cell
suspension by physically separating the solid support from the remaining cell suspension. For
example, the unbound cells may be eluted or washed away with physiologic buffer after
allowing sufficient time for the solid support to bind the stem cells.
[0134]          The bound cells can be separated from the solid phase by any appropriate method,
depending mainly upon the nature of the solid phase and the binding molecule. For example,
                                                     -28
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

bound cells can be eluted from a plastic petri dish by vigorous agitation. Alternatively, bound
cells can be eluted by enzymatically "nicking" or digesting an enzyme-sensitive "spacer"
sequence between the solid phase and an antibody. Suitable spacer sequences bound to
agarose beads are commercially available from, for example, Pharmacia.
[0135]          The eluted, enriched fraction of cells may then be washed with a buffer by
centrifugation and preserved in a viable state at low temperatures for later use according to
conventional technology. The cells may also be used immediately, for example by being
infused intravenously into a recipient.
[0136]          Those which remain attached to the solid support are those cells which contain a
marker which is recognized by the antibody used. Thus, if the anti-CD45 antibody is used,
then the resulting population will be greatly enriched in CD45+ cells. If the antibody used is
VFGFR, then the resulting population will be greatly enriched in VEGFR+ cells. That
population may then be enriched in the other marker by repeating the steps using a solid
phase having attached thereto an antibody to the other marker.
[0137]          Another way to sort CD45+ VEGFR+ cells is by means of flow cytometry, most
preferably by means of a fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS), such as those
manufactured by Becton-Dickinson under the names FACScan or FACSCalibur. By means
of this technique, the cells having a CD45 marker thereon are tagged with a particular
fluorescent dye by means of an anti-CD45 antibody which has been conjugated to such a dye.
Similarly, the VEGFR marker of the cells are tagged with a different fluorescent dye by
means of an anti-VEGFR antibody which is conjugated to the other dye. When the stained
cells are placed on the instrument, a stream of cells is directed through an argon laser beam
that excites the fluorochrome to emit light. This emitted light is detected by a photo
multiplier tube (PMT) specific for the emission wavelength of the fluorochrome by virtue of
a set of optical filters. The signal detected by the PMT is amplified in its own channel and
displayed by a computer in a variety of different forms--e.g., a histogram, dot display, or
contour display. Thus, fluorescent cells which emit at one wavelength, express a molecule
that is reactive with the specific fluorochrome-labeled reagent, whereas non-fluorescent cells
or fluorescent cells which emit at a different wavelength do not express this molecule but
may express the molecule which is reactive with the fluorochrome-labeled reagent which
fluoresces at the other wavelength. The flow cytometer is also semi-quantitative in that it
displays the amount of fluorescence (fluorescence intensity) expressed by the cell. This
correlates, in a relative sense, to the number of the molecules expressed by the cell.
                                                     -29
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

[0138]          Flow cytometers can also be equipped to measure non-fluorescent parameters, such
as cell volume or light scattered by the cell as it passes through the laser beam. Cell volume
is usually a direct measurement. The light scatter PMTs detect light scattered by the cell
either in a forward angle (forward scatter; FSC) or at a right angle (side scatter; SSC). FSC is
usually an index of size, whereas SSC is an index of cellular complexity, although both
parameters can be influenced by other factors.
[0139]          Preferably, the flow cytometer is equipped with more than one PMT emission
detector. The additional PMTs may detect other emission wavelengths, allowing
simultaneous detection of more than one fluorochrome, each in individual separate channels.
Computers allow the analysis of each channel or the correlation of each parameter with
another. Fluorochromes which are typically used with FACS machines include fluorescein
isothiocyanate (FITC), which has an emission peak at 525 nm (green), R-phycoerythrin (PE),
which has an emission peak at 575 nm (orange-red), propidium iodide (PI), which has an
emission peak at 620 nm (red), 7-aminoactinomycin D (7-AAD), which has an emission peak
at 660 nm (red), R-phycoerythrin Cy5 (RPE-Cy5), which has an emission peak at 670 nm
(red), and allophycocyanin (APC), which has an emission peak at 655-750 nm (deep red).
[0140]          These and other types of FACS machines may have the additional capability to
physically separate the various fractions by deflecting the cells of different properties into
different containers.
[0141]          Any other method for isolating the CD45+ VEGFR+ population of a starting
material, such as bone marrow, peripheral blood or cord blood, may also be used in
accordance with the present disclosure. The various subpopulations (e.g., CD14+, Tie2+,
CD144-) of the present disclosure may be isolated in similar manners.
[0142]          Either before or after the crude cell populations are purified as described above, the
population of progenitor cells may be further concentrated by methods known in the art. For
example, the progenitor cells can be enriched by positive selection for one or more antigens
characteristic of EPCs. Such antigens include, for example, CD14 or Tie-2.
[0143]          In one embodiment, blood is withdrawn directly from the circulating peripheral
blood of a donor. The blood is percolated continuously through a column containing the solid
phase-linked binding molecule, such as an antibody VEGFR-2, to capture EPCs. The
progenitor cell-depleted blood is returned immediately to the donor's circulatory system by
methods known in the art, such as hemapheresis. The blood is processed in this way until a
sufficient number of progenitor cells binds to the column. The stem cells are then isolated
                                                      -30
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

from the column by methods known in the art. This method allows rare peripheral blood
progenitor cells to be harvested from a very large volume of blood, sparing the donor the
expense and pain of harvesting bone marrow and the associated risks of anesthesia, analgesia,
blood transfusion, and infection.
[0144]          EPCs are cultivated and proliferated using the methods described herein. Cells are
obtained peripheral blood by isolating peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) by
density gradient centrifugation.
[0145]          Cell suspensions are seeded in any receptacle capable of sustaining cells,
particularly culture flasks, culture plates or roller bottles, and more particularly in small
culture flasks such as 25 cm2 culture flasks. Cells cultured in suspension are resuspended at
approximately 5 x 104 to 2x 105 cells/ml (for example, 1x105 cells/ml). Cells plated on a fixed
substrate are plated at approximately 2-3x 103 cells/cm 2 . Optionally, the culture plates are
coated with a matrix protein such as collagen. The cells can be placed into any known culture
medium capable of supporting cell growth, including HEM, DMEM, RPMI, F-12, and the
like, containing supplements which are required for cellular metabolism such as glutamine
and other amino acids, vitamins, minerals and proteins such as transferrin and the like. The
culture medium may also contain antibiotics to prevent contamination with yeast, bacteria
and fungi such as penicillin, streptomycin, gentamicin and the like. The culture medium may
contain serum derived from bovine, equine, chicken and the like.
[0146]          Conditions for culturing should be close to physiological conditions. The pH of the
culture medium should be close to physiological pH. (for example, between pH 6-8, between
about pH 7 to 7.8, or at pH 7.4). Physiological temperatures range between about 30'C. to
40'C. EPCs are cultured at temperatures between about 32'C. to about 38'C. (for example,
between about 35'C. to about 37 0 C.).
[0147]          Optionally, the culture medium is supplemented with at least one proliferation
inducing ("mitogenic") growth factor. A "growth factor" is protein, peptide or other molecule
having a growth, proliferation-inducing, differentiation-inducing, or trophic effect on EPCs.
"Proliferation-inducing growth factors" are trophic factor that allows EPCs to proliferate,
including any molecule that binds to a receptor on the surface of the cell to exert a trophic, or
growth-inducing effect on the cell. Proliferation-inducing growth factors include EGF,
amphiregulin, acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF or FGF-1), basic fibroblast growth factor
(bFGF or FGF-2), transforming growth factor alpha (TGFa), VEGF and combinations
thereof. Growth factors are usually added to the culture medium at concentrations ranging
                                                    -31
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

between about 1 fg/ml to 1 mg/ml. Concentrations between about 1 to 100 ng/ml are usually
sufficient. Simple titration assays can easily be performed to determine the optimal
concentration of a particular growth factor.
[0148]          The biological effects of growth and trophic factors are generally mediated through
binding to cell surface receptors. The receptors for a number of these factors have been
identified and antibodies and molecular probes for specific receptors are available. EPCs can
be analyzed for the presence of growth factor receptors at all stages of differentiation. In
many cases, the identification of a particular receptor provides guidance for the strategy to
use in further differentiating the cells along specific developmental pathways with the
addition of exogenous growth or trophic factors.
[0149]          Generally, after about 3-10 days in vitro, the culture medium of EPCs is replenished
by aspirating the medium, and adding fresh medium to the culture flask. Optionally, the
aspirated medium is collected, filtered and used as a condition medium to subsequently
passage EPCs. For example the 10%, 20%, 30%, 40% or more condition medium is used.
[0150]          The EPC cell culture can be easily passaged to reinitiate proliferation. For example,
after 3-7 days in vitro, the culture flasks are shaken well and EPCs are then transferred to a
50 ml centrifuge tube and centrifuged at low speed. The medium is aspirated, the EPCs are
resuspended in a small amount of culture medium The cells are then counted and replated at
the desired density to reinitiate proliferation. This procedure can be repeated weekly to result
in a logarithmic increase in the number of viable cells at each passage. The procedure is
continued until the desired number of EPCs is obtained.
[0151]          EPCs and EPC progeny can be cryopreserved by any method known in the art until
they are needed. (See, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,071,741, PCT International patent applications
W093/14191, W095/0761 1, W096/27287, W096/29862, and W098/14058, Karlsson et al.,
65 Biophysical J. 2524-2536 (1993)). The EPCs can be suspended in an isotonic solution,
preferably a cell culture medium, containing a particular cryopreservant. Such
cryopreservants include dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), glycerol and the like. These
cryopreservants are used at a concentration of 5-15% (for example, 8-10%). Cells are frozen
gradually to a temperature of -10 C. to -150 C. (for example, -20'C. to -100 C., or -70'C. to
80-C.).
                                                    -32
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

Genetic modification of the cells
[0152]          In one embodiment, the cells of the present disclosure, MSCs and/or EPCs, are
genetically modified. In one aspect, such genetic modification enhances the therapeutic
activity of the cells. Non-limiting examples of such modification include enhanced
expression or activation of an endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), heme oxygenase
(HMOX1) and prostacyclin synthase (PTGIS).
[0153]          In one aspect, the cell is transformed with a nucleic acid that increases the
expression of biological activity of a protein selected from the group consisting of endothelial
nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), heme oxygenase (HMOX1) and prostacyclin synthase
(PTGIS). In one aspect, the nucleic acid encodes the protein.
Pharmaceutical compositions and administration methods
[0154]          One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a MSC
conditioned culture medium and a prostacyclin and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In
one aspect, the composition further comprises an endothelial progenitor cell (EPC).
[0155]          According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, the compositions can be co
administered with at least one other medicine for vasculopathy, which comprises
prostaglandin I2 (PGI2 ), prostacyclin analogues, phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor,
endothelin receptor antagonist (ETRA), tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and soluble guanylate
cyclase stimulator.
[0156]          According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, the method for treating
vasculopathy may further comprises reducing thrombosis in pulmonary arteries; reducing
inflammation in pulmonary arteries; reducing the proliferation of intimal smooth muscle in
pulmonary arteries; reducing the formation of plexiform lesions in pulmonary arteries;
increasing the amount of nitric oxide in pulmonary arteries; increasing the amount of PGI2 in
pulmonary arteries; reducing the level of Endothelin- 1 in pulmonary arteries; reducing the
amount of growth factors in pulmonary arteries; or promoting proper endothelial morphology
in pulmonary arteries.
[0157]          Treating vasculopathy by administering/transplanting progenitor cells are described
in Wang et al., J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 49:1566-71 (2007), Zhao et al. Circ. Res. 96:442-450
                                                     -33
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

(2005), and Nagaya et al., Circulation 108:889-895(2003), the content of which are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[0158]          Administration/transplantation of cells into the damaged blood vessels has the
potential to repair damaged vascular tissue, e.g., veins, arteries, capillaries, thereby restoring
vascular function. However, the absence of suitable cells for transplantation purposes has
prevented the full potential of this procedure from being met. "Suitable" cells are cells that
meet one or more of the following criteria: (1) can be obtained in large numbers; (2) can be
proliferated in vitro to allow insertion of genetic material, if necessary; (3) capable of
surviving indefinitely and facilitate vascular repair on transplantation r; and (4) are non
immunogenic, preferably obtained from a patient's own tissue or from a compatible donor.
Suitable cells may be autologous, allogeneic or xenogeneic.
[0159]          The cells can be administered to a subject with abnormal vasculature or coronary
failure symptoms. The cells can be prepared from the recipient's own blood or bone marrow.
In such instances the EPCs can be generated from dissociated tissue and proliferated in vitro
using the methods described above. Upon suitable expansion of cell numbers, the EPCs may
be harvested, genetically modified if necessary, and readied for direct injection into the
recipient's vasculature
[0160]          The cells can be prepared from donor tissue that is xenogeneic to the host. For
xenografts to be successful, some method of reducing or eliminating the immune response to
the implanted tissue is usually employed. Thus the recipients can be immunosuppressed,
either through the use of immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporin, or through local
immunosuppression strategies employing locally applied immunosuppressants. Local
immunosuppression is disclosed by Gruber, 54 Transplantation 1-11 (1992). U.S. Pat. No.
5,026,365 discloses encapsulation methods suitable for local immunosuppression.
[0161]          As an alternative to employing immunosuppression techniques, methods of gene
replacement or knockout using homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells, taught
by Smithies et al., 317 Nature 230-234 (1985), and extended to gene replacement or
knockout in cell lines (Zheng et al., 88 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 8067-8071 (1991)), can be
applied to EPCs for the ablation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes. EPCs
lacking MHC expression allows for the grafting of enriched endothelial cell populations
across allogeneic, and perhaps even xenogeneic, histocompatibility barriers without the need
to immunosuppress the recipient. General reviews and citations for the use of recombinant
methods to reduce antigenicity of donor cells are also disclosed by Gruber, 54
                                                    -34
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

Transplantation 1-11 (1992). Exemplary approaches to the reduction of immunogenicity of
transplants by surface modification are disclosed by PCT International patent application WO
92/04033 and PCT/US99/24630. Alternatively the immunogenicity of the graft may be
reduced by preparing EPCs from a transgenic animal that has altered or deleted MHC
antigens.
[0162]          The cells can be encapsulated and used to deliver factors to the host, according to
known encapsulation technologies, including microencapsulation (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos.
4,352,883; 4,353,888; and 5,084,350, herein incorporated by reference) and
macroencapsulation (see, e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,284,761, 5,158,881, 4,976,859 and 4,968,733
and PCT International patent applications WO 92/19195 and WO 95/05452, each
incorporated herein by reference). Macroencapsulation is described in U.S. Pat. Nos.
5,284,761; 5,158,881; 4,976,859; 4,968,733; 5,800,828 and PCT International patent
application WO 95/05452, each incorporated herein by reference. Multiple
macroencapsulation devices can be implanted in the host.
[0163]          Cells prepared from tissue that is allogeneic to that of the recipient can be tested for
use by the well-known methods of tissue typing, to closely match the histocompatibility type
of the recipient.
[0164]          Cells administered to the vasculature can form a vascular graft, so that the cells form
normal connections with neighboring vascular cells, maintaining contact with transplanted or
existing endothelial cells. Thus the transplanted cells can re-establish the vascular tissue
which have been damaged due to disease and aging.
 [0165]         Functional integration of the graft into the host's vascular tissue can be assessed by
examining the effectiveness of grafts on restoring various functions.
 [0166]         According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, cells can be co
administered to the recipient with at least one growth factor, such as FGF, VEGF-A, VEGF
B, BMP-4, TGF-Beta, etc.
 [0167]         Although the foregoing refers to particular preferred embodiments, it will be
understood that the present disclosure is not so limited. It will occur to those of ordinary skill
in the art that various modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments and that such
modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present disclosure.
 [0168]         All of the publications, patent applications and patents cited in this specification are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                                                      -35
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
             1.             A method for treating or preventing vasculopathy comprising administrating
to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising mesenchymal precursor
cells (MPCs) and a prostacyclin.
             2.             The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a human being.
             3.             The method of claim 1, wherein the MPCs are obtained from the subject.The
method of claim 1, wherein the MPCs are obtained from bone marrow.
             4.             The method of claim 1, wherein the pharmaceutical composition further
comprises at least one pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
             5.             The method of claim 1, wherein the pharmaceutical composition further
comprises at least one therapeutic agent.
             6.             The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is suffering from pulmonary
hypertension.
             7.             The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is suffering from peripheral
vascular disease (PVD).
             8.             The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is suffering from critical limb
ischemia (CLI).
             9.             The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is suffering from coronary artery
disease.
             10.            The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is suffering from diabetic
vasculopathy.
             11.            The method of claim 7, further comprising reducing thrombosis in pulmonary
arteries.
             12.            The method of claim 7, further comprising reducing inflammation in
pulmonary arteries.
             13.            The method of claim 7, further comprising reducing the proliferation of
intimal smooth muscle in pulmonary arteries.
                                                         -36
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

             14.            The method of claim 7, further comprising reducing the formation of
plexiform lesions in pulmonary arteries.
             15.            The method of claim 7, further comprising increasing the amount of nitric
oxide in pulmonary arteries.
             16.            The method of claim 7, further comprising increasing the amount of PGI 2 in
pulmonary arteries.
             17.            The method of claim 7, further comprising reducing the level of Endothelin-1
in pulmonary arteries.
             18.            The method of claim 7, further comprising reducing the amount of growth
factors in pulmonary arteries.
             19.            The method of claim 7, further comprising promoting proper endothelial
morphology in pulmonary arteries.
             20.            The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the MPCs are genetically
modified.
             21.            The method of claim 1, wherein the MPCs are co-administered with
endothelial progenitor cells.
             22.            The method of claim 7, wherein the MPCs are co-administered to the subject
with at least one of prostaglandin I2 (PGI2 ), prostacyclin analogues, phosphodiesterase-5
(PDE-5) inhibitor, endothelin receptor antagonist (ETRA), tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and
soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator.
             24.            A method for treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof,
comprising administering to the subject a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a
mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a part of a culture medium that has been in contact with the
MSC and contains one or more components of the MSC.
             25.            The method of claim 24, wherein the prostacyclin and the composition are
administered concurrently.
             26.            The method of claim 24, wherein the prostacyclin and the composition are
administered separately.
                                                         -37
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

             27.            The method of claim 24, further comprising, prior to the administration,
contacting the MSC or the part of the culture medium with a prostacyclin.
             28.            The method of claim 24, wherein the component(s) of the MSC is selected
from the group consisting of an exosome, a microvesicle, a microRNA, a messenger RNA, a
non-coding RNA, a mitochondria, a growth factor, and combinations thereof.
             29.            The method of claim 24, further comprising administering to the subject an
endothelial progenitor cell (EPC).
             30.            The method of claim 29, wherein the EPC is obtained from the subject.
             31.            The method of claim 29, wherein the EPC is transformed with a nucleic acid
that increases the expression of biological activity of a protein selected from the group
consisting of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), heme oxygenase (HMOX1) and
prostacyclin synthase (PTGIS).
             32.            The method of claim 31, wherein the nucleic acid encodes the protein.
             33.            The method of claim 24, wherein the prostacyclin is selected from the group
consisting of epoprostenol, treprostinil, beraprost, ilprost, a PGI 2 receptor agonist, and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
             34.            The method of claim 33, wherein the prostacyclin is treprostinil or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof.
             35.            The method of claim 24, wherein the MSC is a mesenchymal precursor cell
(MPC).
             36.            The method of claim 24, wherein the MSC is obtained from bone marrow.
             37.            The method of claim 24, wherein the vasculopathy is selected from the group
consisting of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), peripheral vascular disease (PVD),
critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery disease and diabetic vasculopathy.
             38.            A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount
of a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a part of
a culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC and contains one or more
components of the MSC and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
                                                         -38
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

             39.            The composition of claim 38, wherein the MSC or the part of the culture
medium has been in contact with a prostacyclin.
             40.            The composition of claim 38, further comprising an endothelial progenitor cell
(EPC).
             41.            A method for preparing a composition comprising a mesenchymal stem cell
(MSC) or a culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC and contains one or more
components of the MSC for in vivo delivery, comprising contacting the MSC with a
prostacyclin.
             42.            A treated composition obtainable by the method of claim 41.
             43.            A method for treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof,
comprising administering to the subject an exosome composition isolated from a
mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) culture, wherein the MSC culture is prepared by culturing the
MSC ex vivo in a culture medium that comprises prostacyclin during expansion of the MSC.
             44.            The method of claim 43, wherein the exosome composition comprises
exosomes or other microvesicles that enclose messenger RNA, non-coding RNA,
microRNAs, mitochondria, or growth factors.
             45.            The method of claim 44, wherein the exosome composition comprises
exosomes or other microvesicles that enclose microRNAs.
             46.            The method of any one of claims 43-45, wherein the MSC is a mesenchymal
precursor cell (MPC).
             47.            The method of any one of claims 43-46, wherein the MSC is obtained from
bone marrow.
             48.            The method of any one of claims 43-47, wherein the MSC is obtained from a
human being.
             49.            The method of any one of claims 43-48, wherein the prostacyclin is
treprostinil or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof.
             50.            The method of any one of claims 43-49, wherein the vasculopathy is selected
from the group consisting of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), peripheral vascular
                                                         -39
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

disease (PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery disease and diabetic
vasculopathy.
             51.            A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount
of an exosome composition isolated from a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) culture, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, wherein the MSC culture is prepared by culturing the
MSC ex vivo in a culture medium that comprises prostacyclin during expansion of the MSC.
             52.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 51, wherein the exosome
composition comprises exosomes or other microvesicles that enclose messenger RNA, non
coding RNA, microRNAs, mitochondria, or growth factors.
             53.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 52, wherein the exosome
composition comprises exosomes or other microvesicles that enclose microRNAs.
             54.            The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 51-53, wherein the
MSC is a mesenchymal precursor cell (MPC).
             55.            The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 51-54, wherein the
MSC is obtained from bone marrow.
             56.            The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 51-55, wherein the
MSC is obtained from a human being.
             57.            The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 51-56, wherein the
prostacyclin is treprostinil or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof.
                                                        -40
9995647_1 (GHMatters) P99225.AU.1

