                                          Abstract
The present invention relates to the combination of PM01183 with several anticancer
drugs, in particular other anticancer drugs selected            from  antitumor platinum
coordination complexes,      antimetabolites,  mitotic inhibitors, anticancer antibiotics,
topoisomerase      I and/or II inhibitors, proteasome    inhibitors, histone deacetylase
inhibitors,   nitrogen  mustard    alkylating  agents,   nitrosourea   alkylating agents,
nonclassical alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists, androgen antagonists, mTOR
inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and other agents selected from aplidine, ET-743,
PM02734 and PM00104, and the use of these combinations in the treatment of cancer.

                                               1
             COMBINATION THERAPY WITH AN ANTITUMOR ALKALOID
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
<removed-apn>, and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
This application claims the benefit of EP Application No EP10382300.1, filed 12
November 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention relates to the combination of PM01183 with other
anticancer drugs, in particular other anticancer drugs selected from antitumor platinum
coordination complexes, antimetabolites, mitotic inhibitors, anticancer antibiotics,
topoisomerase      I and/or II inhibitors, proteasome inhibitors, histone deacetylase
inhibitors,   nitrogen   mustard    alkylating   agents,   nitrosourea    alkylating  agents,
nonclassical alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists, androgen antagonists, mTOR
inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and other agents selected from aplidine, ET-743,
PM02734, and PM001 04 and the use of these combinations in the treatment of cancer.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        Cancer develops when cells in a part of the body begin to grow out of control.
Although there are many kinds of cancer, they all arise from out-of-control growth of
abnormal cells. Cancer cells can invade nearby tissues and can spread through the
bloodstream and lymphatic system to other parts of the body. There are several main
types of cancer. Carcinoma is a malignant neoplasm, which is an uncontrolled and
progressive abnormal growth, arising from epithelial cells. Epithelial cells cover internal
and external surfaces of the body, including organs, lining of vessels, and other small
cavities. Sarcoma is cancer arising from cells in bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood
vessels, or other connective or supportive tissue. Leukemia is cancer that arises in
blood-forming tissue such as the bone marrow, and causes large numbers of abnormal
blood cells to be produced and enter the bloodstream. Lymphoma and multiple
myeloma are cancers that arise from cells of the immune system.
         In addition, cancer is invasive and tends to infiltrate the surrounding tissues and
give rise to metastases. It can spread directly into surrounding tissues and also may be
spread through the lymphatic and circulatory systems to other parts of the body.

                                             2
         Many treatments are available for cancer, including surgery and radiation for
localised disease, and chemotherapy. However, the efficacy of available treatments for
many cancer types is limited, and new, improved forms of treatment showing clinical
benefits are needed. This is especially true for those patients presenting with advanced
and/or metastatic disease and for patients relapsing with progressive disease after
having been previously treated with established therapies which become ineffective or
intolerable due to acquisition of resistance or to limitations in administration of the
therapies due to associated toxicities.
         Since    the   1950s,   significant  advances    have    been    made     in  the
chemotherapeutic management of cancer. Unfortunately, more than 50% of all cancer
patients either do not respond to initial therapy or experience relapse after an initial
response to treatment and ultimately die from progressive metastatic disease. Thus,
the ongoing commitment to the design and discovery of new anticancer agents is
critically important.
         Chemotherapy, in its classic form, has been focused primarily on killing rapidly
proliferating cancer cells by targeting general cellular metabolic processes, including
DNA, RNA, and protein biosynthesis. Chemotherapy drugs are divided into several
groups based on how they affect specific chemical substances within cancer cells,
which cellular activities or processes the drug interferes with, and which specific
phases of the cell cycle the drug affects. The most commonly used types of
chemotherapy drugs include: DNA-alkylating drugs (such as cyclophosphamide,
ifosfamide,    cisplatin,  carboplatin,   dacarbazine),  antimetabolites   (5-fluorouracil,
capecitabine, 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate, gemcitabine, cytarabine, fludarabine),
mitotic inhibitors (such as paclitaxel, docetaxel, vinblastine, vincristine), anticancer
antibiotics (such as daunorubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin, mitoxantrone),
topoisomerase      I and/or II inhibitors (such as topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide,
teniposide), and hormone therapy (such as tamoxifen, flutamide).
         The ideal antitumor drug would kill cancer cells selectively, with a wide index
relative to its toxicity towards non-cancer cells and it would also retain its efficacy
against cancer cells, even after prolonged exposure to the drug. Unfortunately, none of
the current chemotherapies with these agents posses an ideal profile. Most posses
very narrow therapeutic indexes and, in addition, cancerous cells exposed to slightly
sublethal concentrations of a chemotherapeutic agent may develop resistance to such
an agent, and quite often cross-resistance to several other antitumor agents.

                                                     3
         PM01183, also known as tryptamicidin, is a synthetic alkaloid which is currently
in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer, and has the following chemical structure:
                                MeO
                                             N       NH       OMe
                                             H
                                               H   'HO             Me
                                           AcO       S           |
                                   Me            O    H||
                                                            N- -Me
                                                      N
                                      0                   z
                                           ---          OH
         PM01183 has demonstrated a highly potent in vitro activity against solid and
non-solid tumour cell lines as well as a significant in vivo activity in several xenografted
human tumor cell lines in mice, such as those for breast, kidney and ovarian cancer.
PM01 183 exerts its anticancer effects through the covalent modification of guanines in
the DNA minor groove that eventually give rise to DNA double-strand break, S-phase
arrest and apoptosis in cancer cells. Further information regarding this compound can
be found in WO 03/01427;          1 0 0 th  AACR Annual Meeting, April 18-22, 2009, Denver,
CO, Abstract Nr. 2679 and Abstract Nr. 4525; and Leal JFM et al. Br. J. Pharmacol.
2010,161,1099-1110.
         Since cancer is a leading cause of death in animals and humans, several efforts
have been and are still being undertaken in order to obtain a therapy active and safe to
be administered to patients suffering from a cancer. The problem to be solved by the
present invention is to provide anticancer therapies that are useful in the treatment of
cancer.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention establishes that PM01183 potentiates the antitumor
activity of other anticancer agents, in particular other anticancer drugs selected from
antitumor      platinum    coordination        complexes,    antimetabolites, mitotic   inhibitors,
anticancer antibiotics, topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitors, proteasome inhibitors,
histone    deacetylase inhibitors,          nitrogen   mustard alkylating agents,     nitrosourea
alkylating agents, nonclassical alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists, androgen
antagonists, mTOR inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and other agents selected

                                             4
from aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104. Therefore PM01183 and said other
anticancer agents can be successfully used in combination therapy for the treatment of
cancer.
        Thus, this invention is directed to pharmaceutical compositions, kits, methods
for the treatment of cancer using these combination therapies and uses of both drugs
in the treatment of cancer and in the manufacture of medicaments for combination
therapies.
        In accordance with one aspect of this invention, we provide effective
combination therapies for the treatment of cancer based on PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and using another anticancer drug as defined
above.
        In  another embodiment,      the   invention is directed   to  PM01183,   or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the treatment of cancer comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of PM01183, or a pharmaceutical
acceptable salt thereof, in combination with a therapeutically effective amount of
another anticancer drug.
        In another embodiment, the invention encompasses a method of treating cancer
comprising administering to a patient in need of such treatment a therapeutically
effective amount of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a
therapeutically effective amount of another anticancer drug.
        In another aspect, the invention encompasses a method of increasing or
potentiating the therapeutic efficacy of an anticancer drug in the treatment of cancer,
which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective
amount of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in conjunction with
this other anticancer drug.
        In another embodiment, the invention encompasses the use of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the manufacture of a medicament for the
treatment    of   cancer    by  combination    therapy   employing    PM01183,   or   a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with another anticancer drug.

                                              5
        In a further aspect, the invention encompasses a pharmaceutical composition
comprising PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or another
anticancer drug, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, to be used in combination
therapy for the treatment of cancer.
        The invention also encompasses a kit for use in the treatment of cancer which
comprises a dosage form of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
and/or a dosage form of another anticancer drug, and instructions for the use of both
drugs in combination.
        In one preferred aspect, the present invention is concerned with synergistic
combinations of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with another
anticancer drug.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
Fig 1-20. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with oxaliplatin, 5
fluorouracil, gemcitabine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, vincristine, daunorubicin, mitomycin C,
actinomycin D, topotecan, etoposide, bortezomib, vorinostat, cyclophosphamide,
carmustine, dacarbazine, temsirolimus, erlotinib, ET-743 and PM00104 respectively
against A549 cells.
Fig 21-41. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin,
cytarabine, gemcitabine, docetaxel, vincristine, vinorelbine, daunorubicin, mitomycin C,
actinomycin D, topotecan, etoposide, vorinostat, cyclophosphamide, dacarbazine,
temsirolimus, erlotinib, aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104 respectively against
A673 cells.
Fig 42-56. In vitro activity data of PM01 183 in combination with cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil,
cytarabine,    methotrexate,    daunorubicin,   doxorubicin,   mitomycin   C,    topotecan,
irinotecan, etoposide, dacarbazine, temsirolimus, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104
respectively against SK-MEL-2 cells.
Fig 57-80. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin, 5
fluorouracil, cytarabine, gemcitabine, methotrexate, docetaxel, paclitaxel, vinorelbine,
daunorubicin,    doxorubicin,   mitomycin   C, actinomycin     D, topotecan,     irinotecan,
etoposide, bortezomib, vorinostat, flutamide, temsirolimus, erlotinib, ET-743, PM02734
and PM00104 respectively against PC-3 cells.
Fig 81-98. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin,
cytarabine, gemcitabine, methotrexate, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, actinomycin D,

                                             6
topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide, bortezomib, vorinostat, temsirolimus, erlotinib, ET
743, PM02734 and PM00104 respectively against PANC-1 cells.
Fig 99-123. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin,
5-fluorouracil,   cytarabine,    gemcitabine,   methotrexate,     paclitaxel,    vincristine,
vinorelbine, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, actinomycin D, topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide,
bortezomib,     vorinostat, cyclophosphamide,     dacarbazine,   temsirolimus,       erlotinib,
aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104 respectively against HGC-27 cells.
Fig 124-150. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin,
5-fluorouracil, cytarabine, gemcitabine, methotrexate, docetaxel, paclitaxel, vincristine,
vinorelbine, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, actinomycin D, mitomycin C, topotecan,
irinotecan,   etoposide,    vorinostat, cyclophosphamide,     carmustine,      dacarbazine,
temsirolimus, erlotinib, aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104 respectively against
IGROV-1 cells.
Fig 151-170. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin,
5-fluorouracil, cytarabine, gemcitabine, methotrexate, docetaxel, paclitaxel, vincristine,
vinorelbine, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide, bortezomib,
cyclophosphamide, erlotinib, ET-743 and PM00104 respectively against HEP-G2 cells.
Fig 171-197. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin,
5-fluorouracil, cytarabine, gemcitabine, methotrexate, docetaxel, paclitaxel, vincristine,
vinorelbine, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, actinomycin D, mitomycin C, topotecan,
irinotecan,   etoposide,    vorinostat, cyclophosphamide,     carmustine,      dacarbazine,
tamoxifen, temsirolimus, erlotinib, ET-743, PM02734         and PM00104         respectively
against MDA-MB-231 cells.
Fig 198-219. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin,
5-fluorouracil,   cytarabine,    gemcitabine,   docetaxel,   vinorelbine,     daunorubicin,
doxorubicin, actinomycin D, mitomycin C, topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide, bortezomib,
vorinostat, cyclophosphamide,       dacarbazine, temsirolimus, erlotinib, aplidine and
PM02734 respectively against HT-29 cells.
Fig 220-242. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, 5
fluorouracil, cytarabine, gemcitabine, methotrexate, docetaxel, vincristine, vinorelbine,
daunorubicin, doxorubicin,      actinomycin   D, mitomycin    C,   topotecan,     irinotecan,
etoposide, vorinostat, cyclophosphamide, dacarbazine, erlotinib, aplidine, ET-743,
PM02734 and PM00104 respectively against RXF-393 cells.
Fig 243-262. In vitro activity data of PM01183 in combination with cisplatin, oxaliplatin,
5-fluorouracil,   gemcitabine,    methotrexate,  docetaxel,   vincristine,    daunorubicin,
doxorubicin, topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide, bortezomib, vorinostat, dacarbazine,

                                           7
temsirolimus, erlotinib, aplidine, ET-743 and PM02734 respectively against U87-MG
cells.
Fig 263. Tumor volume evaluation of A2780 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, paclitaxel and PM01183 plus paclitaxel.
Fig 264. Tumor volume evaluation of A2780 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01 183, vinorelbine and PM01 183 plus vinorelbine.
Fig 265. Tumor volume evaluation of A2780 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, doxorubicin and PM01183 plus doxorubicin.
Fig 266. Tumor volume evaluation of HGC-27 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, cisplatin and PM01183 plus cisplatin.
Fig 267. Tumor volume evaluation of HGC-27 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, 5-fluorouracil and PM01183 plus 5-fluorouracil.
Fig 268. Tumor volume evaluation of SW1990 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, gemcitabine and PM01183 plus gemcitabine.
Fig 269. Tumor volume evaluation of U87-MG tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, temozolomide and PM01183 plus temozolomide.
Fig 270. Tumor volume evaluation of H460 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, irinotecan and PM01183 plus irinotecan.
Fig 271. Tumor volume evaluation of HT1080 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, dacarbazine and PM01183 plus dacarbazine.
Fig 272. Tumor volume evaluation of HT-29 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, irinotecan and PM01183 plus irinotecan.
Fig 273. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with methotrexate in JURKAT cell line.
Fig 274. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with methotrexate in MOLT-4 cell line.
Fig 275. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with daunorubicin in JURKAT cell line.
Fig 276. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with aplidine in JURKAT cell line.
Fig 277. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with aplidine in MOLT-4 cell line.
Fig 278. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with ET-743 in JURKAT cell line.
Fig 279. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with ET-743 in MOLT-4 cell line.
Fig 280. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with PM00104 in JURKAT cell line.
Fig 281. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with PM001 04 in MOLT-4 cell line.
Fig 282. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with PM02734 in JURKAT cell line.
Fig 283. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with PM02734 in MOLT-4 cell line.Fig
284. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with cytarabine in RAMOS cell line.
Fig 285. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with methotrexate in RAMOS cell line.
Fig 286. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with methotrexate in U-937 cell line.
Fig 287. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with gemcitabine in RAMOS cell line.

                                             8
Fig 288. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with gemcitabine in U-937 cell line.
Fig 289. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with daunorubicin in RAMOS cell line.
Fig 290. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with daunorubicin in U-937 cell line.
Fig 291. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with ET-743 in RAMOS cell line.
Fig 292. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with ET-743 in U-937 cell line.
Fig 293. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with PM00104 in RAMOS cell line.
Fig 294. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with PM00104 in U-937 cell line.
Fig 295. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with PM02734 in RAMOS cell line.
Fig 296. Effects of the combination of PM01 183 with PM02734 in U-937 cell line.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        We surprisingly found that PM01 183 greatly enhances the anticancer activity of
other anticancer drugs when these anticancer drugs are combined with PM01183.
Thus, the present invention is directed to provide an efficacious treatment of cancer
based on the combination of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
with another anticancer drug.
        In the present application, by "cancer" it is meant to include tumors, neoplasias,
and any other malignant disease having as cause malignant tissue or cells.
        The term "treating", as used herein, unless otherwise indicated, means
reversing, alleviating, or inhibiting the progress of the disease or condition to which
such term applies, or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. The term
"treatment", as used herein, unless otherwise indicated, refers to the act of treating as
"treating" is defined immediately above.
        The term "combination" as used throughout the specification, is meant to
encompass the administration to a patient suffering from cancer of the referred
therapeutic agents in the same or separate pharmaceutical formulations, and at the
same time or at different times. If the therapeutic agents are administered at different
times they should be administered sufficiently close in time to provide for the
potentiating or synergistic response to occur.
        As mentioned above, PM01 183 is a synthetic alkaloid, having the following
structure:

                                             9
                                MeO
                                         N       NH      OMe
                                         H                     Me
                                          H     'HO            Me
                                       AcO       S           |
                                   Me        O    H||
                                                       N- -Me
                                                  N
                                     0               OH
        The term "PM01183" is intended here to cover any pharmaceutically acceptable
salt, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, or any other compound which, upon administration to
the patient is capable of providing (directly or indirectly) the compound as described
herein. The preparation of salts, solvates, hydrates, and prodrugs can be carried out by
methods known in the art.
        Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can         be synthesized from   the parent
compound, which contains a basic or acidic moiety, by conventional chemical methods.
Generally, such salts are, for example, prepared by reacting the free acid or base
forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid
in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two. Generally, nonaqueous
media like ether, ethyl acetate, ethanol, isopropanol or acetonitrile are preferred.
Examples of the acid addition salts include mineral acid addition salts such as, for
example, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, sulphate, nitrate, phosphate, and
organic acid addition salts such as, for example, acetate, trifluoroacetate, maleate,
fumarate, citrate, oxalate, succinate, tartrate, malate, mandelate, methanesulphonate
and p-toluenesulphonate. Examples of the alkali addition salts include inorganic salts
such as, for example, sodium, potassium, calcium and ammonium salts, and organic
alkali   salts  such    as,  for   example,     ethylenediamine,   ethanolamine,   N,N
dialkylenethanolamine, triethanolamine and basic aminoacids salts.
        Any compound that is a prodrug of PM01 183 is within the scope and spirit of the
invention. The term "prodrug" is used in its broadest sense and encompasses those
derivatives that are converted in vivo to PM01183. The prodrug can hydrolyze, oxidize,
or otherwise react under biological conditions to provide PM01 183.        Examples of
prodrugs include, but are not limited to, derivatives and metabolites of PM01183 that
include biohydrolyzable moeities such as biohydrolyzable amides, biohydrolyzable

                                             10
esters, biohydrolyzable carbamates,        biohydrolyzable carbonates,    biohydrolyzable
ureides, and biohydrolyzable phosphate analogues. Prodrugs can typically be prepared
using well-known methods, such as those described by Burger in "Medicinal Chemistry
and Drug Discovery" 6th ed. (Donald J. Abraham ed., 2001, Wiley) and "Design and
Applications of Prodrugs" (H. Bundgaard ed., 1985, Harwood Academic Publishers).
        In addition, any drug referred to herein may be in amorphous form or crystalline
form either as free compound or as solvates (e.g. hydrates) and it is intended that both
forms are within the scope of the present invention. Methods of solvation are generally
known within the art.
        Moreover, PM01183 for use in accordance with the present invention may be
prepared following the synthetic process such as the one disclosed in WO 03/014127,
which is incorporated herein by reference.
        Pharmaceutical compositions of PM01183, or of a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, that can be used include solutions, suspensions, emulsions, lyophilised
compositions, etc., with suitable excipients for intravenous administration. Preferably,
PM01183 may be supplied and stored as a sterile lyophilized product, comprising
PM01183 and excipients in a formulation adequate for therapeutic use. For further
guidance on pharmaceutical compositions of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, see for example the formulations             described   in WO
2006/046079, which is incorporated herein by reference.
        Administration of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or
pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compound is preferably by intravenous
infusion. Infusion times of up to 72 hours can be used, more preferably between 1 and
24 hours, with either about 1 hour or about 3 hours most preferred. Short infusion times
which allow treatment to be carried out without an overnight stay in hospital are
especially desirable. However, infusion may be around 24 hours or even longer if
required.
        Preferably the administration of PM01183 is performed in cycles. In a preferred
administration schedule an intravenous infusion of PM01 183 is given to the patients the
first week of each cycle and the patients are allowed to recover for the remainder of the
cycle. The preferred duration of each cycle is of either 3 or 4 weeks. Multiple cycles
can be given as needed. Administration of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable

                                               11
salt thereof, by intravenous infusion during about 1 hour once every 3 weeks is the
most preferred administration schedule, although other protocols can be devised as
variations.
         In the present invention, particularly preferred is the combination of PM01183,
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with another anticancer drug selected
from antitumor platinum coordination complexes, antimetabolites, mitotic inhibitors,
anticancer antibiotics, topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitors, proteasome inhibitors,
histone    deacetylase inhibitors,     nitrogen   mustard alkylating agents,        nitrosourea
alkylating agents, nonclassical alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists, androgen
antagonists, mTOR inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and other agents selected
from aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM001 04 in the treatment of cancer.
         Particularly preferred cancer types are those selected from lung cancer,
sarcoma,      malignant melanoma,       bladder carcinoma,      prostate   cancer, pancreas
carcinoma, thyroid cancer, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma (also known
as liver cancer), breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, esophageal cancer,
neuroblastoma, brain cancer, cervical cancer, anal cancer, testicular cancer, leukemia,
multiple myeloma and lymphoma.
        In a preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with an antitumor platinum
coordination complex in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment
of a cancer selected from lung cancer, sarcoma, malignant melanoma, prostate cancer,
pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer,
colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, brain cancer and lymphoma. This chemotherapeutic
group includes, but is not limited to cisplatin, oxaliplatin, carboplatin, triplatin tetranitrate
(BBR3464), satraplatin, tetraplatin, ormiplatin, iproplatin, nedaplatin and lobaplatin.
Particularly preferred is the combination of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, with cisplatin, oxaliplatin, carboplatin, triplatin tetranitrate, satraplatin,
tetraplatin, ormiplatin, iproplatin, nedaplatin and lobaplatin, and even more preferred is
the combination with cisplatin and oxaliplatin in the treatment of cancer, and more
particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from lung cancer, sarcoma, malignant
melanoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer,
hepatoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer and brain cancer.

                                              12
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with an antimetabolite in the
treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from
lung cancer, sarcoma, malignant melanoma, bladder carcinoma, prostate cancer,
pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer,
colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, esophageal cancer, brain cancer, anal cancer,
leukaemia and lymphoma. This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to
5-fluorouracil,   gemcitabine,    cytarabine,      capecitabine,    decitabine,  floxuridine,
fludarabine, aminopterin, methotrexate, pemetrexed, raltitrexed, cladribine, clofarabine,
mercaptopurine, pentostatin, and thioguanine. Particularly preferred is the combination
of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with 5-fluorouracil,
gemcitabine, cytarabine, capecitabine, decitabine, floxuridine, fludarabine, aminopterin,
methotrexate,    pemetrexed,     raltitrexed,   cladribine,   clofarabine,   mercaptopurine,
pentostatin, and thioguanine, and even more preferred is the combination with 5
fluorouracil, gemcitabine, cytarabine and methotrexate in the treatment of cancer, and
more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from lung cancer, sarcoma,
malignant melanoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian
cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, brain cancer,
leukemia and lymphoma.
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a mitotic inhibitor in the
treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from
lung cancer, sarcoma, prostate cancer, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma,
breast cancer, colorectal      cancer, kidney cancer, brain cancer, leukemia, and
lymphoma. This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to paclitaxel,
docetaxel, vinblastine, vincristine, vindesine, and vinorelbine. Particularly preferred is
the combination of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with
paclitaxel, docetaxel, vinblastine, vincristine, vindesine, and vinorelbine, and even more
preferred is the combination with paclitaxel, docetaxel, vincristine and vinorelbine in the
treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from
lung cancer, sarcoma, prostate cancer, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma,
breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer and brain cancer.
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with an anticancer antibiotic in
the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung cancer, sarcoma,

                                             13
malignant melanoma, bladder carcinoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, thyroid
cancer, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer,
kidney cancer, neuroblastoma, brain cancer, anal cancer, testicular cancer, leukemia,
multiple myeloma and lymphoma. This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not
limited to daunorubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin, mitoxantrone, pixantrone,
valrubicin, mitomycin C, bleomycin, actinomycin A and mithramycin. Particularly
preferred is the combination of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, with daunorubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin, mitoxantrone, pixantrone,
valrubicin, mitomycin C, bleomycin, actinomycin D and mithramycin, and even more
preferred is the combination with daunorubicin, doxorubicin, mitomycin C and
actinomycin D in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung
cancer, sarcoma, malignant melanoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric
carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer,
brain cancer, leukemia and lymphoma.
         In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a topoisomerase I and/or
II inhibitor in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung
cancer, sarcoma, malignant melanoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric
carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer,
neuroblastoma,      brain cancer, cervical cancer, testicular cancer, leukemia and
lymphoma. This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to topotecan, SN
38,   irinotecan,   camptothecin,   rubitecan,  etoposide,   amsacrine and     teniposide.
Particularly preferred is the combination of PM00104, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, with topotecan, SN-38, irinotecan, camptothecin, rubitecan, etoposide,
amsacrine and teniposide, and even more preferred is the combination with topotecan,
irinotecan and etoposide in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the
treatment of lung cancer, sarcoma, malignant melanoma, prostate cancer, pancreas
carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colorectal
cancer, kidney cancer, and brain cancer.
         In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a proteosome inhibitor in
the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung cancer, prostate
cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, hepatoma, colorectal cancer, brain
cancer, multiple myeloma and lymphoma. This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is
not limited to bortezomib, disulfiram, epigallocatechin gallate, and salinosporamide A.

                                              14
Particularly preferred is the combination of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, with bortezomib, disulfiram, epigallocatechin gallate, and salinosporamide
A, and even more preferred is the combination with bortezomib in the treatment of
cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung cancer, prostate cancer,
pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, hepatoma, colorectal cancer and brain cancer.
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a histone deacetylase
inhibitor in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung
cancer, sarcoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian
cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, brain cancer and lymphoma.
This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to romidepsin, panobinostat,
vorinostat, mocetinostat, belinostat, entinostat, resminostat, PCI-24781, AR-42, CUDC
101, and valproic acid. Particularly preferred is the combination of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with romidepsin, panobinostat, vorinostat,
mocetinostat, belinostat, entinostat, resminostat, PCI-24781, AR-42, CUDC-101, and
valproic acid, and even more preferred is the combination with vorinostat in the
treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung cancer, sarcoma,
prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, breast
cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer and brain cancer.
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a nitrogen mustard
alkylating agent in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of
lung cancer, sarcoma,        bladder carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian        cancer,
hepatoma,     breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, leukemia, multiple
myeloma and lymphoma. This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to
melphalan,      ifosfamide,     chlorambucil,    cyclophosphamide,      mechlorethamine,
uramustine, estramustine and bendamustine. Particularly preferred is the combination
of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with melphalan, ifosfamide,
chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, mechlorethamine, uramustine, estramustine and
bendamustine, and even more preferred is the combination with cyclophosphamide in
the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung cancer, sarcoma,
gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer and
kidney cancer.

                                             15
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a nitrosourea alkylating
agent in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung cancer,
ovarian cancer, breast cancer, brain cancer, multiple myeloma and lymphoma. This
chemotherapeutic group       includes, but is not limited to lomustine, semustine,
carmustine, fotemustine and streptozotocin. Particularly preferred is the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with lomustine, semustine,
carmustine,    fotemustine  and streptozotocin,    and  even more      preferred  is the
combination with carmustine in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the
treatment of lung cancer, ovarian cancer and breast cancer.
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a nonclassical alkylating
agent in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung cancer,
sarcoma, malignant melanoma,         pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian
cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, brain cancer, leukemia and
lymphoma. This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to procarbazine,
dacarbazine, temozolomide and altretamine. Particularly preferred is the combination
of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with procarbazine,
dacarbazine, temozolomide and         altretamine, and even more       preferred  is the
combination with dacarbazine and tezolomide in the treatment of lung cancer,
sarcoma, malignant melanoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, breast cancer,
colorectal cancer, kidney cancer and brain cancer.
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with an estrogen antagonist in
the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of breast cancer. This
chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to toremifene, fulvestrant,
tamoxifen and nafoxidine. Particularly preferred is the combination of PM01 183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with toremifene, fulvestrant, tamoxifen and
nafoxidine, and even more preferred is the combination with tamoxifen in the treatment
of breast cancer.
        In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with an androgen antagonist
in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of prostate cancer.
This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to bicalutamide, flutamide,

                                               16
MDV3100 and nilutamide. Particularly preferred is the combination of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with bicalutamide, flutamide, MDV3100 and
nilutamide, and even more preferred is the combination with flutamide in the treatment
of prostate cancer.
         In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a mTOR inhibitor in the
treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of lung cancer, sarcoma,
malignant melanoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian
cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer and brain cancer. This
chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to sirolimus, temsirolimus,
everolimus, ridaforolimus, KU-0063794 and WYE-354. Particularly preferred is the
combination of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with sirolimus,
temsirolimus, everolimus, ridaforolimus, KU-0063794 and WYE-354, and even more
preferred is the combination with temsirolimus in the treatment of lung cancer,
sarcoma,     malignant     melanoma,    prostate    cancer,  pancreas carcinoma,         gastric
carcinoma, ovarian cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer and brain cancer.
         In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor
in the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected
from lung cancer, sarcoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma,
ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer and brain
cancer. This chemotherapeutic group includes, but is not limited to erlotinib, sorafenib,
axitinib, bosutinib, cediranib, crizotinib, dasatinib,       gefitinib,   imatinib, canertinib,
lapatinib,   lestaurtinib,  neratinib,  nilotinib,   semaxanib,    sunitinib,   vatalanib    and
vandetanib.     Particularly   preferred    is   the   combination     of   PM01183,      or   a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with erlotinib, sorafenib, axitinib, bosutinib,
cediranib, crizotinib, dasatinib, gefitinib, imatinib, canertinib, lapatinib, lestaurtinib,
neratinib, nilotinib, semaxanib, sunitinib, vatalanib and vandetanib, and even more
preferred is the combination with erlotinib in the treatment of cancer, and more
particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from lung cancer, sarcoma, prostate
cancer, pancreas carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast
cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer and brain cancer.
         In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with aplidine in the treatment

                                            17
of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from sarcoma,
gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, brain cancer and
leukemia.
         In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with ET-743 (trabectedin) in
the treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected
from    lung cancer, sarcoma,       malignant melanoma,        prostate    cancer, pancreas
carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, kidney
cancer, , leukemia and lymphoma.
         In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with PM02734 in the
treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from
sarcoma,     malignant   melanoma,    prostate   cancer,    pancreas carcinoma,       gastric
carcinoma, ovarian cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, brain
cancer, leukemia and lymphoma.
         PM02734            ((4S)-MeHex-D-Val-L-Thr-L-Val-D-Val-D-Pro-L-Orn-D-allo-Ile
cyclo(D-allo-Thr-D-allo-Ile-D-Val-L-Phe-Z-Dhb-L-Val))      is   a     synthetic depsipeptide
related to the family of kahalalide compounds, which is currently in clinical trials for the
treatment of cancer. This compound is the subject of WO 2004/035613 and has the
following structure:
                                 00                *1\\       0        1
                       H                                 H                 H
                            N   N"rNN                    N       NV:**     N
                                               4                 H
                                        0H             0      0            HN0
                           OH               NH2                           N
                  HN
                                                                 0
                     0
                   / NH
In another preferred embodiment, the invention is directed to the combination of
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with PM00104 in the
treatment of cancer, and more particularly in the treatment of a cancer selected from

                                             18
lung cancer, sarcoma, malignant melanoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma,
gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, kidney cancer, leukemia
and lymphoma.
        PM00104 is a synthetic alkaloid related to jorumycin and renieramycins, and
also to safracin and saframycin compounds, which is currently in clinical trials for the
treatment of cancer, and has the following structure:
                                                      OCH 3
                                               HO           CH 3
                                    AcO
                                 Me
                                 3P          H
                                                    N--CH3
                                             N
                                 0
                                     OO
                                    \O          60H
                                           NH
                                                            CF3
        For further details on PM00104 see WO 01/87894.
        The invention includes any pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any drug
referred to herein, which can be synthesized from the parent compound by
conventional chemical methods as disclosed before.
        In one embodiment, the invention relates to synergistic combinations employing
PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and another anticancer drug
selected from the list of drugs given above. An indication of synergism can be obtained
by testing the combinations and analyzing the results, for example by the Chou-Talalay
method or by any other suitable method, such as those provided in the Examples
section.
        The possible favorable outcomes for synergism include 1) increasing the
efficacy of the therapeutic effect, 2) decreasing the dosage but increasing or
maintaining the same efficacy to avoid toxicity, 3) minimizing or slowing down the
development of drug resistance, and 4) providing selective synergism against target (or
efficacy synergism) versus host (or toxicity antagonism). Accordingly, in a combination
of two chemotherapeutic agents having synergism, the treatment regimen will be
different of those in which the combination of the two drugs shows only an additive
effect. In this regard, if there is synergism less dosage of one or both of the agents
(compared with the amounts used in single therapy) may be required to obtain the
same or even a greater efficacy, and the possible toxic side effects may be reduced or

                                              19
even avoided. Alternatively, if the dosage of both drugs in the combination is the same
as those when given alone (as single agents), an increase in efficacy of the
combination can be expected. Therefore, the existence of synergism in a given drug
combination will modify the length of the treatment and/or the treatment regimen.
         In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of increasing or
potentiating the therapeutic efficacy of an anticancer drug selected from the list of
drugs given above in the treatment of cancer, which comprises administering to a
patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in conjunction with this other anticancer drug.
An indication of increase or potentiation of the therapeutic efficacy can be obtained by
testing the combinations and analyzing the results, for example the tumor growth
inhibition. This tumor growth inhibition can be assessed by comparing the mean tumor
volume of the treatment combining the two drugs (PM01183 and the other drug) with
those of the other drug monotherapy treatment. In this regard, increase or potentiation
of the therapeutic efficacy is determined when the response of the combination therapy
is greater than the best response of the most active drug administered as single agent
(monotherapy) on the same schedule and dose as used in the combination therapy.
This aspect of the invention is further illustrated in the Examples section, specifically in
Examples 13-19.
         In another aspect, the invention is directed to the use of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the manufacture of a medicament for the
treatment     of   cancer  by    combination      therapy   employing  PM01 183,     or    a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with another anticancer drug selected from
the list of drugs given above.
         In a further aspect, the invention is directed to a method for the treatment of
cancer comprising       administering  to a patient in       need of such treatment        a
therapeutically effective amount of PM01 183, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, in combination with a therapeutically effective amount of another anticancer
drug selected from the list of drugs given above.
         In another aspect, the invention is directed to PM01183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, for use in the treatment of cancer comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of PM01183, or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt

                                             20
thereof, in combination with a therapeutically effective amount of another anticancer
drug selected from the list of drugs given above.
        According to the present invention, PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, and the other anticancer drug may be provided in the same medicament or
as separate medicaments for administration at the same time or at different times.
Preferably, PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and the other
anticancer drug are provided as separate medicaments for administration at different
times. When administered separately and at different times, either PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or the other anticancer drug, may be
administered first. In addition, both drugs can be administered in the same day or at
different days, and they can be administered using the same schedule or at different
schedules during the treatment cycle. Additionally, the administration of both drugs can
be done by using the same route of administration or different routes. For instance,
both drugs can be administered by intravenous administration or, alternatively, one
drug can be administered orally and the other one by intravenous administration.
        Thus, the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may comprise
all the components (drugs) in a single pharmaceutically acceptable formulation or,
alternatively, the components may be formulated separately and administered in
combination with one another. Various pharmaceutically acceptable formulations well
known to those of skill in the art can be used in the present invention. Moreover,
selection of an appropriate formulation for use in the present invention can be
performed by those skilled in the art by taking into account the route of administration
and the solubility characteristics of the components of the composition.
        The correct dosage of both drugs in combination will vary according to the
particular formulation, the mode of application, and the particular site, patient and
tumour being treated. Other factors like age, body weight, sex, diet, time of
administration, rate of excretion, condition of the patient, other drug combinations,
reaction sensitivities and severity of the disease shall be taken into account.
Administration can be carried out continuously or periodically within the maximum
tolerated dose.
        The combination of the invention may be used alone or in combination with one
or more of a variety of anticancer agents or supportive care agents.

                                             21
        In addition, depending on the type of tumor and the development stage of the
disease, anticancer effects of the treatments of the present invention include, but are
not limited to, inhibition of tumor growth, tumor growth delay, regression of tumor,
shrinkage of tumor, increased time to regrowth of tumor on cessation of treatment,
slowing of disease progression, and prevention of metastasis. It is expected that when
a treatment of the present invention is administered to a patient, such as a human
patient, in need of such treatment, said treatment will produce an effect, as measured
by, for example, the extent of the anticancer effect, the response rate, the time to
disease progression, or the survival rate. In particular, the treatments of the invention
are suited for human patients, especially those who are relapsing or refractory to
previous chemotherapy. First line therapy is also envisaged.
        In another aspect, the present invention is directed to a kit for use in the
treatment of cancer, comprising a supply of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in dosage units for at least one cycle, and printed instructions
for the use of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with another
anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above in combination.
        In a related aspect, the present invention is directed to a kit for use in the
treatment of cancer, comprising a supply of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in dosage units for at least one cycle, a supply of another
anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above in dosage units for at least
one cycle, and printed instructions for the use of both drugs in combination.
        In another aspect, the present invention also provides a pharmaceutical
composition comprising PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient, for use in combination with another
anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above in the treatment of cancer.
        In a further aspect, the present invention also provides a pharmaceutical
composition comprising PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
another anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. This pharmaceutical composition is preferable for
use in the treatment of cancer.
        In another aspect, the invention further provides for the use of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in the preparation of a composition for use in

                                             22
combination with another anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above in
the treatment of cancer.
          In another aspect, the invention further provides for the use of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the treatment of cancer, in combination
therapy with another anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above.
          In one embodiment, cancer cells are contacted, or otherwise treated, with a
combination of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and another
anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above.          The cancer cells are
preferably human and         include carcinoma cells, sarcoma cells, leukemia cells,
lymphoma cells, and myeloma cells. More preferably, the cancer cells are cells of lung
cancer, sarcoma, malignant melanoma, bladder carcinoma, prostate cancer, pancreas
carcinoma, thyroid cancer, gastric carcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatoma, breast
cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney cancer, esophageal cancer, neuroblastoma, brain
cancer, cervical cancer, anal cancer, testicular cancer, leukemia, multiple myeloma and
lymphoma. In addition, the combination provides a synergistic inhibitory effect against
the cancer cells, particularly against the human cancer cells mentioned above.
          For example, the combination inhibits proliferation or survival of contacted
cancer cells. A lower level of proliferation or survival of the contacted cancer cells
compared to the non-contacted cancer cells supports the combination of PM01 183, or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and another anticancer drug selected from
the list of drugs given above as being effective for treating a patient with cancer.
          In another aspect, the invention provides for a method for inhibiting the growth
of cancer cells comprising contacting said cancer cells with an effective amount of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with another
anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above.
          In another aspect, the invention provides for a method for inhibiting the growth
of cancer cells comprising contacting said cancer cells with a synergistic combination
of PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and another anticancer
drug selected from the list of drugs given above, wherein said combination provides
improved inhibition against cancer cell growth as compared to (i) PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in the absence of the other anticancer drug,
or (ii) the other anticancer drug in the absence of PM01 183.

                                              23
          In another aspect, the invention provides for a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a synergistic combination of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, and another anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs given above for
inhibiting the growth of cancer cells, wherein said combination provides improved
inhibition    against   cancer   cell  growth   as   compared   to  (i) PM01183,    or  a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in the absence of the other anticancer drug,
or (ii) the other anticancer drug in the absence of PM01 183.
          In another embodiment, the combination of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and another anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs
given above inhibits tumor growth or reduces the size of a tumor in vivo. In particular,
the combination inhibits in vivo growth and/or reduces the size of carcinoma, sarcoma,
leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma. Preferably, the combination inhibits in vivo tumor
growth of lung, sarcoma, malignant melanoma, bladder, prostate, pancreas, thyroid,
gastric, ovarian, hepatoma, breast, colorectal, kidney, esophageal, neuroblastoma,
brain, cervical, anal, testicular, leukemia, multiple myeloma and lymphoma tumours.
          For example, these combinations inhibit tumor growth or reduce the size of
human cancer xenografts, particularly human gastric, pancreas, sarcoma, lung,
colorectal and ovary tumors xenografts, in animal models. A reduced growth or
reduced size of human cancer xenografts in animal models administered with these
combinations further supports the combination of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and another anticancer drug selected from the list of drugs
given above as being effective for treating a patient with cancer.
           Therefore, in another aspect, the invention provides for a method for reducing
the size of a tumor, comprising administering an effective amount of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with another anticancer drug
selected from the list of drugs given above.
          In another aspect, the invention provides for a method for inhibiting tumor
growth,     comprising    administering    an  effective  amount    of  PM01183,    or  a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with another anticancer drug
selected from the list of drugs given above.

                                             24
        The following examples further illustrate the invention. These examples should
not be interpreted as a limitation of the scope of the invention.
        To provide a more concise description, some of the quantitative expressions
given herein are not qualified with the term "about". It is understood that, whether the
term "about" is used explicitly or not, every quantity given herein is meant to refer to the
actual given value, and it is also meant to refer to the approximation to such given
value that would reasonably be inferred based on the ordinary skill in the art, including
equivalents and approximations due to the experimental and/or measurement
conditions for such given value.
EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human lung carcinoma cell lines.
        The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of lung
carcinoma.
        The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01 183: oxaliplatin,
carmustine, cyclophosphamide, mytomicin C (stock solutions of these compounds
prepared in sterile double distilled water and stored at -201C), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU),
gemcitabine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, vincristine, daunorubicin, actinomycin D, topotecan,
etoposide, bortezomib, vorinostat, dacarbazine, temsirolimus, erlotinib, ET-743 and
PM001 04 (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at
200C). Additional serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture medium to
achieve a final 4X concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were
added per well.
A549 was the human lung carcinoma cell line selected for this assay. A549 cells were
maintained in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10%
Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 units/mL of Penicillin
Streptomycin, at 37   0C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
The screening was performed in two parts:
a. In the first set of assays, IC50 values were determined for each drug in A549 cells
after 72 hours of drug exposure. Briefly, cells were harvested and seeded in 96 well
microtiter plates at a density of 5,000 cells in 150 pL of culture medium and incubated

                                              25
for 24 hours in drug-free medium before treatment with vehicle alone or test
compounds for 72 h.
The cytotoxic effect was measured by the MTT reduction assay, in which 3-(4,5
Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide, a tetrazole, which is reduced to
purple formazan in the mitochondria of living cells, was used. MTT (50pL of 1mg/mL
stock solution) was added to the wells and incubated for 8 hours at 370C until formazan
crystals were formed. After gently removing the culture medium, DMSO was added to
dissolve the insoluble purple formazan product into a colored solution. The absorbance
of the wells was quantified by measuring the optical density at 540 nm. Results were
expressed as percentage of control cell growth. The IC50 values (concentration of drug
that produces a 50% inhibition of cell growth) used for the combination studies were
calculated using Prism v5.02 software (GraphPad). The results were expressed as
molar concentration and represented the average of 2-4 independent assays.
          The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the A549
tumor cell line are shown in table 1.
            Table 1: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)    Compound         IC50 (M)        Compound          IC50 (M)
   PM01183        3.60E-09       Oxaliplatin    9.OOE-04             5-FU         9.23E-05
 Gemcitabine      2.80E-10        Paclitaxel    4.OOE-08          Docetaxel       3.OOE-09
  Vincristine     2.50E-07      Daunorubicin    3.55E-07         Mitomycin C      2.49E-04
Actinomycin D     4.70E-09       Topotecan      8.OOE-07          Etoposide       7.82E-07
  Bortezomib      3.1OE-09       Vorinostat     6.81E-06     Cyclophosphamide     1.OOE-03
  Carmustine       1.OOE-03     Dacarbazine     6.OOE-04        Temsirolimus      3.29E-06
    Erlotinib      1.OOE-05        ET-743       2.25E-08          PM00104         7.OOE-09
b. In a second set of assays, A549 human tumor cells were incubated with PM01 183 in
combination with each of the agents mentioned above. The previously obtained IC0o
values were used as starting concentrations for each compound (100% concentration).
Arbitrary dilutions, as percentage of the initial IC0o value (100%, 75%, 70%, 60%, 50%,

                                            26
40%, 30%, 25%, and 0%), were performed for each pair of compounds and tested in
combined complementary (opposite concentrations) dose-response curves as follows:
              IC50 of PM01183                                  IC50 of Agent
                    100%                                             0%
                     75%                                            25%
                     70%                                            30%
                     60%                                            40%
                     50%                                            50%
                     40%                                            60%
                     30%                                            70%
                     25%                                            75%
                      0%                                           100%
        As a visual aid, response values were plotted on a scatter plot with dose ratios
given on the x-axis and % response values on the y-axis. A horizontal line was drawn
between the two endpoint response values (E.g. between the response values for
100% IC50 PM01183 and 100% IC5o standard chemotherapeutic agent). In cases
where response values at the two endpoints were approximately equivalent, points
lying above or below this predicted line of additivity could be interpreted as
representing antagonistic or synergistic drug interaction, respectively.
        The in vitro combinations of each drug with PM01 183 have the potential to be
synergistic, additive or antagonistic. Synergistic cytotoxicity to tumor cells is an optimal
effect and implies that the combination of PM01 183 with another drug is more effective
than either drug alone.
        According to this assay, it was found that in A549 human lung carcinoma cell
line:
a. The combination of PM01 183 with oxaliplatin exhibited strong synergism (Figure 1).
b. The combination of PM0183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 2) and PM01183 with
gemcitabine (Figure 3) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
c. The combination of PM01183 with paclitaxel showed synergism (Figure 4) at the
50/50-40/60 dose ratios, while the combination of PM01183 with docetaxel showed
synergism (Figure 5) at the 75/25 and 50/50 dose ratios, and the combination of
PM01 183 with vincristine exhibited synergism (Figure 6) at almost all dose ratios.

                                            27
d. The combination of PM01 183 with daunorubicin (Figure 7), PM01 183 with mitomycin
C (Figure 8), and PM01183 with actinomycin D (Figure 9) exhibited synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan showed strong synergism (Figure 10),
while the combination of PM01 183 with etoposide showed synergism (Figure 11) at the
60/40 and 25/75 dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01183 with bortezomib showed synergism (Figure 12) at the
40/60-30/70 dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01183 with vorinostat (Figure 13) showed strong synergism
at almost all dose ratios.
h. The combination of PM01183 with cyclophosphamide (Figure 14) showed synergism
at almost all dose ratios.
i. The combination of PM01183 with carmustine exhibited strong synergism (Figure
15).
j. The combination of PM01183 with dacarbazine showed strong synergism (Figure
16).
k. The combinations of PM01183 with temsirolimus showed synergism (Figure 17) at
almost all dose ratios.
1.The combination of PM01 183 with erlotinib showed strong synergism (Figure 18).
m. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 showed synergism (Figure 19) at the
75/25-60/40 and 30/70 dose ratios.
n. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 (Figure 20) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
EXAMPLE 2. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human sarcoma cell lines.
        The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of sarcoma.
        The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, cyclophosphamide, mytomicin C (stock solutions of these compounds
prepared in sterile double distilled water and stored at -200C), gemcitabine, docetaxel,

                                              28
vincristine, vinorelbine, daunorubicin, cytarabine, actinomycin D, topotecan, etoposide,
vorinostat, dacarbazine, temsirolimus, erlotinib, aplidine, PM02734, ET-743 and
PM001 04 (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at
200C). Additional serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture medium to
achieve a final 4X concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were
added per well.
A673 was the human rhabdomyosarcoma cell line selected for this assay. A673 cells
were maintained in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) supplemented with
10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 units/mL of Penicillin
Streptomycin, at 37     0C,  5% C02 and 95% humidity.
         The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC50 values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the A673 tumor cell line.
         The IC50 values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the A673
tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in example 1
and are shown in table 2.
            Table 2: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)     Compound        IC50 (M)       Compound           IC5 0 (M)
   PM01 183        2.20E-09        Cisplatin     3.03-05         Oxaliplatin      7.80E-05
   Cytarabine      1.97E-07      Gemcitabine    4.34E-10         Docetaxel        6.50E-10
   Vincristine     8.60E-09      Vinorelbine    5.OOE-08        Daunorubicin      5.20E-07
  Mitomycin C      2.99E-06     Actinomycin D   9.56E-10         Topotecan        2.40E-08
   Etoposide       1.55E-06       Vorinostat    2.16E-06     Cyclophosphamide     1.00E-03
  Dacarbazine      3.OOE-04     Temsirolimus    1.00E-06          Erlotinib       5.OOE-05
    Aplidine       2.16E-09         ET-743      1.90E-09          PM02734         3.60E-06
   PM00104          3.OOE-09
b. In a second set of assays, A673 human tumor cells were incubated with PM01 183 in
combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same combination of
unique IC50 concentrations as those described in example 1.

                                            29
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in example 1.
        According to this assay, it was found that in A673 human sarcoma cell line:
a. The combination of PM01 183 with cisplatin (Figure 21) and PM01 183 with oxaliplatin
(Figure 22) exhibited strong synergism.
b. The combination of PM01183 with cytarabine exhibited strong synergism (Figure
23), while the combination of PM01183 with gemcitabine showed synergism (Figure
24) at the 75/25-70/30 dose ratios.
c. The combination of PM01183 with docetaxel (Figure 25), PM01183 with vincristine
(Figure 26) and PM01183 with vinorelbine (Figure 27) showed synergism at almost all
dose ratios.
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 28) and PM01183 with
actinomycin D (Figure 30) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios, while the
combination of PM01 183 with mitomycin C (Figure 29) exhibited strong synergism.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 31) and PM01183 with
etoposide (Figure 32) exhibited strong synergism at almost all dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01 183 with vorinostat (Figure 33) showed strong synergism.
g. The combination of PM01183 with cyclophosphamide (Figure 34) showed synergism
at almost all dose ratios.
h. The combination of PM01 183 with dacarbazine showed synergism (Figure 35) at the
75/25-70/30 and 40/60 dose ratios.
i. The combinations of PM01183 with temsirolimus showed strong synergism (Figure
36).
j. The combination of PM01 183 with erlotinib exhibited strong synergism (Figure 37).
k. The combination of PM01183 with aplidine showed synergism (Figure 38) at the
50/50-30/70 dose ratios.
1. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 (Figure 39) showed synergism at the
30/70-25/75 dose ratios.
m. The combination of PM01183 with PM02734 (Figure 40) showed synergism at the
75/25 and 40/60 dose ratios.

                                              30
n. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 exhibited synergism (Figure 41).
EXAMPLE 3. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human malignant melanoma cell lines.
         The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of malignant
melanoma.
         The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
mytomicin C (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in sterile double distilled
water and stored at -200C), 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, daunorubicin, cytarabine,
topotecan, irinotecan, methotrexate, etoposide, dacarbazine, temsirolimus, PM02734,
ET-743 and PM00104 (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO
and stored at -200C). Additional serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture
medium to achieve a final 4X concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted
compound were added per well.
SK-MEL-2 was the human melanoma cell line selected for this assay. SK-MEL-2 cells
were maintained in Minimum Essential Medium Eagle (MEME) supplemented with 10%
Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 units/mL of Penicillin
Streptomycin, at 37     0C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
         The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC5o values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the SK-MEL-2 tumor cell line.
         The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the SK
MEL-2 tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in
example 1 and are shown in table 3.
           Table 3: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)    Compound         IC50 (M)       Compound           IC50 (M)
   PM01183         2.OOE-09       Cisplatin     1.60E-04           5-FU           7.OOE-04
  Cytarabine       3.89E-06     Methotrexate    1.OOE-04       Daunorubicin       1.77E-07
  Doxorubicin      3.OOE-07     Mitomycin C     9.OOE-07        Topotecan         4.37E-07
   Irinotecan      1.80E-05      Etoposide      2.89E-06       Dacarbazine        6.30E-04

                                           31
 Temsirolimus    5.OOE-05      ET-743        2.OOE-09       PM02734          1.76E-06
   PM00104       2.OOE-09
b. In a second set of assays, SK-MEL-2 tumor cells were incubated with PM01183 in
combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same combination of
unique IC50 concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in example 1.
        According to this assay, it was found that in SK-MEL-2 human melanoma cell
line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 42) showed synergism at the
75/25, 50/50 and 30/70 dose ratios.
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 43), PM01183 with
cytarabine (Figure 44), and PM01183 with methotrexate (Figure 45) exhibited strong
synergism.
c. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 46) and PM01183 with
doxorubicin (Figure 47) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios, while the
combination of PM01 183 with mitomycin C (Figure 48) exhibited strong synergism.
d. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 49), PM01183 with irinotecan
(Figure 50), and PM01183 with etoposide (Figure 51) exhibited synergism and even
strong synergism in some dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01 183 with dacarbazine showed synergism (Figure 52).
f. The combinations of PM01183 with temsirolimus showed strong synergism (Figure
53).
g. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 (Figure 54) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
h. The combination of PM01183 with PM02734 (Figure 55) showed synergism at the
25/75-50/50 dose ratios .
i. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 (Figure 56) exhibited synergism at
almost all dose ratios.

                                                32
EXAMPLE 4. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human prostate carcinoma cell lines.
          The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of prostate
cancer.
          The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, mytomicin C (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in sterile double
distilled water and stored at -200C), 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, docetaxel, paclitaxel,
vinorelbine,     daunorubicin,     cytarabine,   doxorubicin,   actinomycin     D,   topotecan,
irinotecan, methotrexate, etoposide, vorinostat, temsirolimus, bortezomib, erlotinib,
flutamide, PM02734, ET-743 and PM00104 (stock solutions of these compounds
prepared in pure DMSO and stored at -200C). Additional serial dilutions were prepared
in serum-free culture medium to achieve a final 4X concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of
each diluted compound were added per well.
PC-3 was the human prostate adenocarcinome cell line selected for this assay. PC-3
cells were       maintained    in    Roswell   Park    Memorial   Institute    medium    (RPMI)
supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100
units/mL of Penicillin-Streptomycin, at 37 0C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
          The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC5o values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the PC-3 tumor cell line.
The IC0o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the PC-3 tumor
cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in example 1 and
are shown in table 4.
            Table 4: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)      Compound         IC50 (M)        Compound             IC50 (M)
   PM01 183        2.60E-09         Cisplatin     1.10E-04         Oxaliplatin         1.71 E-04
       5-FU        1.OOE-03       Cytarabine      4.OOE-05        Gemcitabine          4.OOE-07
  Methotrexate     1.20E-04        Docetaxel      1.86E-08          Paclitaxel         9.OOE-08
  Vinorelbine      1.OOE-05      Daunorubicin     1.15E-06         Doxorubicin         1.48E-06
  Mitomycin C      1.OOE-05     Actinomycin D     1.OOE-08         Topotecan           6.33E-07
   Irinotecan      7.OOE-05        Etoposide      4.80E-05         Bortezomib          8.OOE-07

                                           33
   Vorinostat     3.90E-06     Flutamide     4.90E-05      Temsirolimus        5.OOE-07
    Erlotinib     2.33E-04      ET-743       8.OOE-09        PM02734           5.40E-07
   PM00104        7.1OE-09
b. In a second set of assays, PC-3 human tumor cells were incubated with PM01 183 in
combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same combination of
unique IC50 concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in examples 1.
         According to this assay it was found that in PC-3 human prostate cancer cell
line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 57) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios, while the combination of PM01183 with oxaliplatin (Figure 58) exhibited
strong synergism.
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 59) and PM01183 with
cytarabine (Figure 60) exhibited synergism at almost all dose ratios, and the
combination of PM01183 with gemcitabine exhibited strong synergism (Figure 61).
Finally, the combination of PM01 183 with methotrexate showed synergism (Figure 62)
at the 30/70-25/75 dose ratios.
c. The combination of PM01 183 with docetaxel showed synergism (Figure 63) at
almost all dose ratios, while the combination of PM01183 with paclitaxel (Figure 64)
showed synergism at the 40/60-30/70 dose ratios. The combination of PM01 183 with
vinorelbine (Figure 65) showed strong synergism.
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 66) and PM01183 with
doxorubicin (Figure 67) exhibited strong synergism. The combination of PM01183 with
mitomycin C (Figure 68) and PM01183 with actinomycin D (Figure 69) showed
synergism at almost all dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 70) and PM01183 with
irinotecan (Figure 71) exhibited strong synergism, while the combination of PM01183
with etoposide (Figure 72) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01183 with bortezomib (Figure 73) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01 183 with vorinostat (Figure 74) showed synergism.

                                             34
h. The combination of PM01183 with flutamide (Figure 75) showed synergism at the
40/60-25/75 dose ratios.
i. The combination of PM01183 with temsirolimus exhibited strong synergism (Figure
76).
j. The combination of PM01183 with erlotinib (Figure 77) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
k. The combination of PM01 183 with ET-743 (Figure 78) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
1. The combination of PM01183 with PM02734 (Figure 79) showed synergism at the
75/25-70/30 and 30/70 dose ratios.
m. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 exhibited strong synergism (Figure
80).
EXAMPLE 5. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human pancreas carcinoma cell lines.
        The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of pancreatic
carcinoma.
        The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in sterile double distilled
water and stored at -200C), gemcitabine, daunorubicin, cytarabine, doxorubicin,
actinomycin      D,   topotecan,   irinotecan,   methotrexate,    etoposide,   vorinostat,
temsirolimus, bortezomib, erlotinib, PM02734, ET-743 and PM00104 (stock solutions of
these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at -200C). Additional serial
dilutions were     prepared in serum-free culture medium to achieve a final 4X
concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were added per well.
PANC-1 was the human pancreatic carcinoma cell line selected for this assay. PANC-1
cells were     maintained    in  Roswell    Park  Memorial    Institute medium    (RPMI)
supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100
units/mL of Penicillin-Streptomycin, at 37 C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
        The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:

                                              35
a. In the first set of assays, IC50 values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the PANC-1 tumor cell line.
The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the PANC-1
tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in example 1
and are shown in table 5.
            Table 5: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)    Compound         IC50 (M)        Compound          IC50 (M)
   PM01183         2.80E-09        Cisplatin    1.47E-04         Oxaliplatin      1.84E-04
  Cytarabine       9.OOE-05     Gemcitabine     1.OOE-06        Methotrexate      1.OOE-05
 Daunorubicin      8.69E-07     Doxorubicin     3.45E-06       Actinomycin D      2.20E-08
  Topotecan        4.37E-06       Irinotecan    9.OOE-05          Etoposide       1.OOE-05
  Bortezomib       4.16E-07      Vorinostat     6.05E-06        Temsirolimus      1.OOE-05
    Erlotinib      4.16E-07         ET-743      2.1OE-08          PM02734         9.OOE-06
   PM00104         7.89E-09
b. In a second set of assays, PANC-1 human tumor cells were incubated with
PM01183 in combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same
combination of unique IC5o concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed example 1.
         According to this assay it was found that in PANC-1               human pancreas
carcinoma cell line:
a. The combination of PM01 183 with cisplatin (Figure 81) and PM01 183 with oxaliplatin
(Figure 82) exhibited strong synergism.
b. The combination of PM01183 with cytarabine (Figure 83) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios, while the combination of PM01 183 with gemcitabine (Figure 84)
and PM01 183 with methotrexate (Figure 85) exhibited strong synergism.
c. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 86) and PM01183 with
doxorubicin (Figure 87) exhibited synergism, while the combination of PM01183 with
actinomycin D (Figure 88) showed synergism at the 75/25 and 30/70-25/75 dose ratios.

                                             36
d. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 89) and PM01183 with
irinotecan (Figure 90) exhibited strong synergism, while the combination of PM01183
with etoposide (Figure 91) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01 183 with bortezomib (Figure 92) showed synergism at the
75/25-70/30 and 50/50 dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01 183 with vorinostat (Figure 93) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01183 with temsirolimus exhibited strong synergism (Figure
94).
h. The combination of PM01 183 with erlotinib exhibited strong synergism (Figure 95).
i. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 (Figure 96) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
j. The combination of PM01 183 with PM02734 (Figure 97) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
k. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 showed synergism (Figure 98) at the
75/25 and 50/50 dose ratios.
EXAMPLE 6. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human gastric carcinoma cell lines.
         The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of gastric
cancer.
         The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, cyclophosphamide (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in sterile
double distilled water and stored at -200C), 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine,        paclitaxel,
vincristine,   vinorelbine,    daunorubicin,    dacarbazine,     cytarabine,   doxorubicin,
actinomycin      D,   topotecan,    irinotecan,   methotrexate,    etoposide,   vorinostat,
temsirolimus, bortezomib, erlotinib, aplidine, PM02734, ET-743 and PM00104 (stock
solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at -200C). Additional
serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture medium to achieve a final 4X
concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were added per well.

                                                 37
HGC-27 was the human gastric carcinoma cell line selected for this assay. HGC-27
cells were maintained in Iscove's modified Dulbeco's medium (IDMD) supplemented
with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 units/mL of Penicillin
Streptomycin, at 37     0C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
          The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC5o values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the HGC-27 tumor cell line.
          The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the HGC
27 tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in
example 1 and are shown in table 6.
            Table 6: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
    Compound            IC50 (M)    Compound         IC50 (M)     Compound         IC50 (M)
      PM01183          8.50E-10       Cisplatin     8.OOE-05      Oxaliplatin     1.06E-04
        5-FU           1.OOE-05      Cytarabine     5.OOE-05     Gemcitabine      5.34E-10
   Methotrexate        3.30E-08       Paclitaxel    5.OOE-09      Vincristine     1.25E-08
     Vinorelbine       6.50E-08    Daunorubicin     3.72E-07      Doxorubicin     5.40E-08
   Actinomycin D       3.74E-09      Topotecan      8.08E-07       Irinotecan     4.OOE-06
     Etoposide         2.90E-06     Bortezomib      5.60E-09      Vorinostat      1.20E-06
Cyclophosphamide       1.OOE-03     Dacarbazine     3.46E-04     Temsirolimus     1.50E-07
       Erlotinib       7.50E-06       Aplidine      9.OOE-09         ET-743       5.80E-09
      PM02734          9.50E-07       PM00104       3.20E-09
b. In a second set of assays, HGC-27 human tumor cells were incubated with
PM01 183 in combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same
combination of unique IC5o concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed, as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay, as disclosed in example 1.
         According to this assay it was found that in HGC-27 human gastric carcinoma
cell line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 99) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios, while the combination of PM01183 with oxaliplatin (Figure 100)
exhibited strong synergism.

                                           38
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 101) and PM01183 with
cytarabine (Figure 102) exhibited synergism, even being strong in some dose ratios.
The combination of PM01183 with gemcitabine (Figure 103) and PM01183 with
methotrexate (Figure 104) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
c. The combination of PM01183 with paclitaxel exhibited strong synergism (Figure
105). The combination of PM01183 with vincristine (Figure 106) and PM01183 with
vinorelbine (Figure 107) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 108) and PM01183 with
actinomycin D (Figure 110) exhibited strong synergism. The combination of PM01183
with doxorubicin (Figure 109) exhibited synergism at the 75/25-60/40 dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan exhibited strong synergism (Figure
111). The combination of PM01183 with irinotecan (Figure 112) showed synergism at
the 70/30-60/40 and 40/60 dose ratios, while the combination of PM01 183 with
etoposide (Figure 113) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01183 with bortezomib exhibited strong synergism (Figure
114).
g. The combination of PM01183 with vorinostat (Figure 115) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
h. The combination of PM01183 with cyclophosphamide exhibited strong synergism
(Figure 116).
i. The combination of PM01183 with dacarbazine exhibited strong synergism (Figure
117).
j. The combination of PM01183 with temsirolimus exhibited strong synergism (Figure
118).
k. The combination of PM01183 with erlotinib exhibited strong synergism (Figure 119).
1.The combination of PM01 183 with aplidine showed strong synergism (Figure 120).
m. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 (Figure 121) showed synergism at the
50/50 and 75/25 dose ratios.
n. The combination of PM01183 with PM02734 exhibited strong synergism (Figure
122).

                                               39
o. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 (Figure 123) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
EXAMPLE 7. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human ovarian carcinoma cell lines.
         The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of ovarian
cancer.
         The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, cyclophosphamide, carmustine, mytomicin C (stock solutions of these
compounds prepared in sterile double distilled water and stored at -200C), 5
fluorouracil, gemcitabine, docetaxel, paclitaxel, vincristine, vinorelbine, daunorubicin,
dacarbazine,       cytarabine,   doxorubicin,     actinomycin  D,   topotecan,   irinotecan,
methotrexate, etoposide, vorinostat, temsirolimus, erlotinib, aplidine, PM02734, ET-743
and PM001 04 (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored
at -200C). Additional serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture medium to
achieve a final 4X concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were
added per well.
IGROV-1 was the human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line selected for this assay.
IGROV-1 cells were maintained in Roswell Park Memorial Institute medium (RPMI)
supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100
units/mL of Penicillin-Streptomycin, at 37    0C,   5% C02 and 95% humidity.
         The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC5o values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the IGROV-1 tumor cell line.
         The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the
IGROV-1 tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in
example 1 and are shown in table 7.
           Table 7: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)    Compound           IC50 (M)     Compound             IC50 (M)
   PM01183         3.20E-09       Cisplatin       7.OOE-05       Oxaliplatin        8.50E-06
      5-FU         9.OOE-05      Cytarabine       1.17E-05      Gemcitabine         6.34E-09

                                            40
 Methotrexate     1.OOE-04      Docetaxel     5.01 E-08       Paclitaxel     9.50E-08
   Vincristine   3.79E-07      Vinorelbine    1.39E-06       Daunorubicin    3.55E-07
  Doxorubicin    2.59E-07     Actinomycin D   3.29E-09       Mitomycin C     3.OOE-06
   Topotecan     3.OOE-07       Irinotecan    1.O0E-05        Etoposide      3.06E-06
   Vorinostat    2.88E-06      Carmustine     7.12E-04    Cyclophosphamide    1.OOE-03
 Dacarbazine     3.98E-04     Temsirolimus    1.27E-07         Erlotinib     7.91E-06
    Aplidine      1.50E-09        ET-743      6.45E-09        PM02734        3.33E-07
   PM00104       3.30E-09
b. In a second set of assays, IGROV-1 human tumor cells were incubated with
PM01183 in combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same
combination of unique IC50 concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in example 1.
         According to this assay it was found that in IGROV-1 human ovarian carcinoma
cell line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 124) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios, while the combination of PM01183 with oxaliplatin exhibited
strong synergism (Figure 125).
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 126) and PM01183 with
cytarabine (Figure 127) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios. The combination
of PM01183 with gemcitabine (Figure 128) and PM01183 with methotrexate (Figure
129) exhibited synergism.
c. The combination of PM01183 with docetaxel (Figure 130), PM01183 with paclitaxel
(Figure 131), and PM01183 with vincristine (Figure 132) exhibited strong synergism,
while the combination of PM01183 with vinorelbine (Figure 133) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 134) exhibited synergism.
The combination of PM01183 with doxorubicin (Figure 135) and PM01183 with
actinomycin D (Figure 136) exhibited synergism at almost all dose ratios, while the
combination of PM01183 with mitomycin C (Figure 137) showed synergism at the
50/50 and 30/70-25/75 dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01 183 with topotecan (Figure 138), PM01 183 with irinotecan
(Figure 139), and PM01 183 with etoposide (Figure 140) exhibited synergism.

                                            41
f. The combination of PM01183 with vorinostat (Figure 141) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01183 with cyclophosphamide (Figure                 142) showed
synergism at almost all dose ratios.
  h. The combination of PM01183 with carmustine (Figure 143) exhibited synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
i. The combination of PM01183 with dacarbazine (Figure 144) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
j. The combination of PM01 183 with temsirolimus exhibited synergism (Figure 145).
k. The combination of PM01183 with erlotinib exhibited synergism (Figure 146).
1. The combination of PM01183 with aplidine (Figure 147) showed synergism at the
70/30-60/40 dose ratios.
m. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 (Figure 148) showed synergism at the
75/25-60/40 dose ratios.
n. The combination of PM01183 with PM02734 exhibited strong synergism (Figure
149).
o. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 (Figure 150) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
EXAMPLE 8. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines.
        The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the   antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic       agents   used in the treatment       of
hepatocellular cancer.
        The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, cyclophosphamide (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in sterile
double distilled water and stored at -200C), 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, paclitaxel,
docetaxel, vincristine, vinorelbine, daunorubicin, cytarabine, doxorubicin, topotecan,
irinotecan, methotrexate, etoposide, bortezomib, erlotinib, ET-743 and PM00104 (stock
solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at -200C). Additional

                                              42
serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture medium to achieve a final 4X
concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were added per well.
HepG2 was the human hepatocellular liver carcinoma cell line selected for this assay.
HepG2       cells were    maintained    in Minimum      Essential  Medium      Eagle  (MEME)
supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100
units/mL of Penicillin-Streptomycin, at 37   0C,   5% C02 and 95% humidity.
         The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC5o values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the HepG2 tumor cell line.
         The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the
HepG2 tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in
example 1 and are shown in table 8.
            Table 8: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)    Compound          IC50 (M)        Compound            IC50 (M)
   PM01183         2.50E-09       Cisplatin      5.OOE-05          Oxaliplatin       2.80E-05
      5-FU         4.50E-06      Cytarabine      2.06E-05         Gemcitabine        5.34E-09
  Methotrexate     3.96E-08       Docetaxel      5.OOE-07          Paclitaxel        5.70E-08
   Vincristine     6.OOE-08      Vinorelbine     1.02E-06         Daunorubicin       3.OOE-07
  Doxorubicin      2.OOE-07      Topotecan       1.OOE-06          Irinotecan        1.OOE-06
   Etoposide       1.04E-05      Bortezomib      3.90E-07     Cyclophosphamide       1.OOE-03
    Erlotinib      8.60E-06        ET-743        7.21E-09          PM00104           3.OOE-09
b. In a second set of assays, HepG2 human tumor cells were incubated with PM01 183
in combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same combination of
unique IC5o concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in example 1.
         According to this assay it was found that in HepG2 human hepatocellular cell
line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 151) and PM01183 with
oxaliplatin (Figure 152) exhibited strong synergism.

                                            43
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 153) showed synergism at
the 75/25, 50/50 and 30/70 dose ratios. The combination of PM01183 with cytarabine
(Figure 154), PM01183 with gemcitabine (Figure 155) and PM01183 with methotrexate
(Figure 156) exhibited strong synergism.
c. The combination of PM01183 with docetaxel (Figure               157) exhibited strong
synergism. The combination of PM01183 with paclitaxel (Figure 158) and PM01183
with vincristine (Figure 159) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios, while the
combination of PM01183 with vinorelbine (Figure 160) showed synergism at the 50/50
and 30/70-25/75 dose ratios.
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 161) and PM01183 with
doxorubicin (Figure 162) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 163) and PM01183 with
etoposide (Figure 165) exhibited strong synergism. The combination of PM01183 with
irinotecan (Figure 164) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01 183 with bortezomib (Figure 166) showed synergism at the
75/25-60/40 dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01183 with cyclophosphamide (Figure                 167) showed
synergism at almost all dose ratios.
h. The combination of PM01183 with erlotinib (Figure 168) exhibited strong synergism.
i. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 (Figure 169) showed synergism at the
60/40-50/50 dose ratios.
j. The combination of PM01 183 with PM00104 (Figure 170) exhibited strong synergism.
EXAMPLE 9. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human breast carcinoma cell lines.
        The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of breast
cancer.
        The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, cyclophosphamide, carmustine, mytomicin C (stock solutions of these
compounds prepared in sterile double distilled water and stored at -200C), 5
fluorouracil, gemcitabine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, vincristine, vinorelbine, daunorubicin,

                                               44
dacarbazine,       cytarabine,   doxorubicin,     actinomycin  D,    topotecan,   irinotecan,
methotrexate, etoposide, vorinostat, temsirolimus, erlotinib, tamoxifen, PM02734, ET
743 and PM00104 (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and
stored at -200C). Additional serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture medium
to achieve a final 4X concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were
added per well.
MDA-MB-231 was the human breast adenocarcinoma cell line selected for this assay.
MDA-MB-231 cells were maintained in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)
supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100
units/mL of Penicillin-Streptomycin, at 37    0C,  5% C02 and 95% humidity.
          The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC5o values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the MDA-MB-231 tumor cell line.
          The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the MDA
MB-231 tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in
example 1 and are shown in table 9.
            Table 9: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)     Compound            IC50 (M)     Compound            IC50 (M)
   PM01183         3.50E-09         Cisplatin       1.53E-04       Oxaliplatin       1.08E-04
     5-FU          9.OOE-05       Cytarabine        9.57E-06     Gemcitabine         8.50E-09
 Methotrexate      5.94E-06        Docetaxel        2.50E-09       Paclitaxel        8.50E-09
  Vincristine      5.OOE-08       Vinorelbine       1.20E-05     Daunorubicin        3.70E-07
  Doxorubicin      6.OOE-07     Actinomycin D       4.54E-10      Mitomycin C        2.OOE-06
  Topotecan        1.66E-07        Irinotecan       8.50E-06       Etoposide         4.80E-06
  Vorinostat       1.70E-06   Cyclophosphamide      1.OOE-03      Carmustine         9.OOE-04
 Dacarbazine       1.92E-05       Tamoxifen         1.30E-05     Temsirolimus        1.20E-05
    Erlotinib      1.OOE-04          ET-743         2.OOE-09       PM02734           2.80E-06
   PM00104         1.OOE-09
b. In a second set of assays, MDA-MB-231 human tumor cells were incubated with
PM01 183 in combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same
combination of unique IC0o concentrations as those described in example 1.

                                            45
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in example 1.
         According to this assay it was found that in MDA-MB-231       human breast
carcinoma cell line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 171) and PM01183 with
oxaliplatin (Figure 172) exhibited synergism.
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 173) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios. The combination of PM01183 with cytarabine (Figure 174) and
PM01183 with gemcitabine (Figure 175) exhibited strong synergism, while the
combination of PM01183 with methotrexate (Figure 176) showed synergism at the
75/25-70/30 and 50/50 dose ratios.
c. The combination of PM01183 with docetaxel (Figure 177) and PM01183 with
paclitaxel (Figure 178) exhibited synergism. The combination of PM01 183 with
vincristine (Figure 179) showed synergism at the 75/25 and 50/50 dose ratios, while
the combination of PM01 183 with vinorelbine (Figure 180) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 181) and PM01183 with
mitomycin C (Figure       184) exhibited synergism at almost all dose ratios. The
combination of PM01183 with doxorubicin (Figure 182) exhibited strong synergism and
the combination of PM01 183 with actinomycin D (Figure 183) exhibited synergism.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 185) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios. The combination of PM01183 with irinotecan (Figure 186) and
PM01 183 with etoposide (Figure 187) exhibited synergism.
f. The combination of PM01183 with vorinostat (Figure 188) showed synergism at
75/25 and 50/50-40/60 dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01183 with cyclophosphamide (Figure 189) exhibited strong
synergism.
h. The combination of PM01183 with carmustine (Figure 190) exhibited synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
i. The combination of PM01183 with dacarbazine (Figure 191) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.

                                            46
j. The combination of PM01183 with tamoxifen (Figure 192) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios
k. The combination of PM01183 with temsirolimus exhibited strong synergism (Figure
193).
1.The combination of PM01 183 with erlotinib exhibited strong synergism (Figure 194).
m. The combination of PM01 183 with ET-743 exhibited strong synergism (Figure 195).
n. The combination of PM01183 with PM02734 (Figure 196) exhibited synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
o. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 (Figure 197) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
EXAMPLE 10. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human colorectal carcinoma cell lines.
        The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of colorectal
cancer.
        The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, cyclophosphamide, mytomicin C (stock solutions of these compounds
prepared in sterile double distilled water and stored at -200C), 5-fluorouracil,
gemcitabine,     docetaxel,    vinorelbine,  daunorubicin,     dacarbazine,    cytarabine,
doxorubicin, actinomycin D, topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide, vorinostat, bortezomib,
temsirolimus, erlotinib, PM02734 and aplidine (stock solutions of these compounds
prepared in pure DMSO and stored at -200C). Additional serial dilutions were prepared
in serum-free culture medium to achieve a final 4X concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of
each diluted compound were added per well.
HT-29 was the human colon adenocarcinoma cell line selected for this assay. HT-29
cells were maintained in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) supplemented
with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 units/mL of Penicillin
Streptomycin, at 37 C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
        The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:

                                              47
a. In the first set of assays, IC50 values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the HT-29 tumor cell line.
         The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the HT-29
tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in example 1
and are shown in table 10.
           Table 10: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound          IC50 (M)     Compound         IC50 (M)      Compound           IC50 (M)
   PM01183         3.70E-09        Cisplatin     2.20E-04        Oxaliplatin      1.03E-04
      5-FU         9.OOE-06       Cytarabine     7.80E-06       Gemcitabine       4.OOE-07
   Docetaxel       3.20E-10      Vinorelbine     3.OOE-08       Daunorubicin      5.32E-07
  Doxorubicin      9.OOE-07     Actinomycin D    3.27E-09       Mitomycin C       2.OOE-06
  Topotecan        3.28E-07       Irinotecan     9.OOE-06        Etoposide        5.44E-06
  Bortezomib       6.15E-09       Vorinostat     2.76E-06    Cyclophosphamide     1.OOE-03
 Dacarbazine       2.47E-05     Temsirolimus     3.50E-06         Erlotinib       2.56E-05
    Aplidine       1.76E-09       PM02734        2.14E-07
b. In a second set of assays, HT-29 human tumor cells were incubated with PM01 183
in combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same combination of
unique IC5o concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in example 1.
         According to this assay it was found that in HT-29 human colorectal carcinoma
cell line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 198) showed synergism at the
75/25-70/30 dose ratios, while the combination of PM01 183 with oxaliplatin (Figure
199) exhibited strong synergism.
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 200) and PM01183 with
gemcitabine (Figure 202) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios, and the
combination of PM01 183 with cytarabine (Figure 201) exhibited strong synergism.
c. The combination of PM01 183 with docetaxel (Figure 203) exhibited synergism at the
50/50 and 75/25 dose ratios, while the combination of PM01183 with vinorelbine
(Figure 204) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.

                                            48
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 205) and PM01183 with
mitomycin C (Figure 208) exhibited strong synergism. The combination of PM01183
with doxorubicin (Figure 206) and PM01183 with actinomycin D (Figure 207) showed
synergism at almost all dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 209) and PM01183 with
etoposide (Figure 211) exhibited strong synergism. The combination of PM01183 with
irinotecan (Figure 210) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01183 with bortezomib (Figure 212) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01 183 with vorinostat (Figure 213) exhibited synergism.
h. The combination of PM01183 with cyclophosphamide (Figure 214) showed
synergism at the 40/60-25/75 dose ratios.
i. The combination of PM01183 with dacarbazine (Figure 215) exhibited strong
synergism.
j. The combination of PM01183 with temsirolimus exhibited strong synergism (Figure
216).
k. The combination of PM01183 with erlotinib showed synergism at almost all dose
ratios (Figure 217).
1. The combination of PM01183 with aplidine (Figure 218) showed synergism at the
40/60-25/75 dose ratios.
m. The combination of PM01183 with PM02734 (Figure 219) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
EXAMPLE 11. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human kidney carcinoma cell lines.
        The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of kidney
cancer.
        The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
cyclophosphamide, mytomicin C (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in
sterile double distilled water and stored at -200C), 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine,

                                                 49
methotrexate,        docetaxel,    vincristine,   vinorelbine,   daunorubicin,     dacarbazine,
cytarabine, doxorubicin, actinomycin D, topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide, vorinostat,
erlotinib, PM02734,        ET-743,    PM00104      and   aplidine (stock solutions of these
compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at -200C). Additional serial dilutions
were prepared in serum-free culture medium to achieve a final 4X concentration.
Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were added per well.
RXF-393 was the human kidney carcinoma cell line selected for this assay. RXF-393
cells were       maintained     in   Roswell    Park    Memorial   Institute   medium    (RPMI)
supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100
units/mL of Penicillin-Streptomycin, at 37      0C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
         The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC5o values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the RXF-393 tumor cell line.
         The IC5o values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the RXF
393 tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in
example 1 and are shown in table 11.
           Table 11: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
 Compound           IC50 (M)       Compound           IC50 (M)       Compound           IC50 (M)
   PM01183         5.OOE-09          Cisplatin       6.67E-05            5-FU          3.OOE-04
  Cytarabine       5.OOE-05        Gemcitabine       5.OOE-07       Methotrexate       1.75E-04
   Docetaxel       5.94E-10         Vincristine      1.73E-08        Vinorelbine       8.50E-06
 Daunorubicin      6.20E-07        Doxorubicin       8.OOE-07      Actinomycin D       7.09E-10
 Mitomycin C       9.OOE-06         Topotecan        3.93E-07         Irinotecan       1.40E-05
   Etoposide       2.OOE-05         Vorinostat       4.1OE-06    Cyclophosphamide      1.OOE-03
 Dacarbazine       7.94E-04          Erlotinib       4.80E-06          Aplidine        1.50E-09
    ET-743         9.60E-09          PM02734         5.OOE-06         PM00104          5.40E-09
b. In a second set of assays, RXF-393 human tumor cells were incubated with
PM01183 in combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same
combination of unique IC5o concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in example 1.

                                            50
         According to this assay it was found that in RXF-393 human kidney carcinoma
cell line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 220) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 221), PM01183 with
cytarabine (Figure 222), PM01183 with gemcitabine (Figure 223), and PM01183 with
methotrexate (Figure 224) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
c. The combination of PM01183 with docetaxel (Figure 225), PM01183 with vincristine
(Figure 226) and PM01183 with vinorelbine (Figure 227) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 228) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios. The combination of PM01183 with doxorubicin (Figure 229)
showed synergism at the 75/25-60/40 dose ratios, while the combination of PM01 183
with actinomycin D (Figure 230) showed synergism at the 75/25-70/30 and 30/70 dose
ratios. The combination of PM01183 with mitomycin C (Figure 231) exhibited strong
synergism.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 232) exhibited strong
synergism. The combination of PM01183 with irinotecan             (Figure 233) showed
synergism at almost all dose ratios, while the combination of PM01183 with etoposide
(Figure 234) showed synergism at the 75/25 and 40/60-30/70 dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01183 with vorinostat (Figure 235) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01183 with cyclophosphamide (Figure 236) showed
synergism at the 75/25-70/30 and 25/75 dose ratios.
h. The combination of PM01183 with dacarbazine (Figure 237) showed synergism at
the 60/40-50/50 dose ratios.
i. The combination of PM01 183 with erlotinib exhibited strong synergism (Figure 238).
j. The combination of PM01 183 with aplidine (Figure 239) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.
k. The combination of PM01 183 with ET-743 (Figure 240) showed synergism at almost
all dose ratios.

                                               51
1. The combination of PM01183 with PM02734 (Figure 241) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
m. The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 (Figure 242) exhibited strong
synergism.
EXAMPLE 12. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human glioblastoma cell lines.
        The objective of this study was to determine the ability of PM01 183 to potentiate
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic             agents used in the treatment       of
glioblastoma.
        The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: cisplatin,
oxaliplatin (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in sterile double distilled
water and stored at -20*C),           5-fluorouracil,   gemcitabine, docetaxel, vincristine,
daunorubicin,      dacarbazine,     doxorubicin,    topotecan,    irinotecan, methotrexate,
etoposide, vorinostat, temsirolimus, bortezomib erlotinib, PM02734, ET-743 and
aplidine (stock solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at
200C). Additional serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture medium to
achieve a final 4X concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were
added per well.
U87-MG was the human glioblastoma cell line selected for this assay. U87-MG cells
were maintained in Minimum Essential Medium Eagle (MEME) supplemented with 10%
Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 units/mL of Penicillin
Streptomycin, at 37    0C,  5% C02 and 95% humidity.
        The screening was performed in two parts as disclosed in example 1:
a. In the first set of assays, IC50 values were determined for each drug after 72 hours of
drug exposure in the U87-MG tumor cell line.
        The IC50 values (72 hours drug exposure) of each individual agent for the U87
MG tumor cell line were calculated by using the same methodology disclosed in
example 1 and are shown in table 12.
           Table 12: IC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agent
  Compound         IC50 (M)      Compound           IC50 (M)       Compound        IC50 (M)

                                            52
   PM01183       4.50E-09        Cisplatin      4.40E-05     Oxaliplatin       1.90E-04
      5-FU       1.OOE-03      Gemcitabine      4.50E-07    Methotrexate       5.OOE-05
   Docetaxel     1.OOE-07       Vincristine     1.OOE-07    Daunorubicin      2.84E-07
  Doxorubicin    3.OOE-07       Topotecan       7.50E-07      Irinotecan       7.54E-06
   Etoposide     1.85E-05       Bortezomib      4.OOE-07     Vorinostat        1.60E-05
  Dacarbazine    7.OOE-04      Temsirolimus     3.50E-06       Erlotinib       1.49E-04
    Aplidine     3.80E-09         ET-743        5.OOE-09      PM02734         4.08E-06
b. In a second set of assays, U87-MG human tumor cells were incubated with
PM01183 in combination with each of the agents mentioned above in the same
combination of unique IC50 concentrations as those described in example 1.
Cell culture and cell plating were performed as described before and the cytotoxic
effect was also measured by the MTT Assay as disclosed in example 1.
         According to this assay it was found that in U87-MG human glioblastoma cell
line:
a. The combination of PM01183 with cisplatin (Figure 243) showed synergism at the
70/30 and 50/50 dose ratios, while the combination of PM01 183 with oxaliplatin (Figure
244) exhibited strong synergism.
b. The combination of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil (Figure 245) and PM01183 with
methotrexate (Figure 247) exhibited synergism. The combination of PM01 183 with
gemcitabine (Figure 246) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
c. The combination of PM01183 with docetaxel (Figure 248) and PM01183 with
vincristine (Figure 249) exhibited strong synergism.
d. The combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin (Figure 250) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios, while the combination of PM01183 with doxorubicin (Figure 251)
showed synergism at the 75/25 and 60/40 dose ratios.
e. The combination of PM01183 with topotecan (Figure 252) and PM01183 with
etoposide (Figure 254) showed strong synergism. The combination of PM01 183 with
irinotecan (Figure 253) showed synergism at almost all dose ratios.
f. The combination of PM01183 with bortezomib (Figure 255) showed synergism at
almost all dose ratios.
g. The combination of PM01183 with vorinostat (Figure 256) exhibited strong
synergism.

                                             53
h. The combination of PM01 183 with dacarbazine (Figure 257) exhibited synergism.
i. The combination of PM01183 with temsirolimus (Figure 258) showed synergism at
the 50/50 and 30/70 dose ratios.
j. The combination of PM01 183 with erlotinib (Figure 259) showed synergism at the
40/60-25/75 dose ratios.
k. The combination of PM01183 with aplidine (Figure 260) showed synergism at the
50/50-25/75 dose ratios.
m. The combination of PM01 183 with ET-743 (Figure 261) exhibited strong synergism.
1.The combination of PM01 183 with PM02734 (Figure 262) showed strong synergism.
EXAMPLE 13. In vivo studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
paclitaxel, vinorelbine and doxorubicin in human ovarian tumor xenografts.
The aim of these studies was to evaluate the ability of PM01183 to potentiate the
antitumor activity of paclitaxel, vinorelbine and doxorubicin by using a xenograft model
of human ovarian carcinoma.
Female athymic nude mice (Harlan Laboratories Models, S.L. (Barcelona, Spain) were
utilized for all experiments. Animals were housed in individually ventilated cages, up to
ten per cage in a 12-hour light-dark cycle at 21-23   0C and 40-60 % humidity. The mice
were allowed free access to irradiated standard rodent diet and sterilized water.
Animals were acclimated for at least 5 days prior to tumor implantation with a tumor cell
suspension.
The tumor model used in these studies was A2780 cell line, which was obtained from
the European Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC n* 93112519).
A2780 cells were grown at 37 *C with 5 % CO 2 in RPMI-1640 medium. Each animal
was subcutaneously implanted on the right flank, using 26G needle and a 1 cc syringe,
with 1x10 7 A2780 cells (from in vitro passage 5 in PM01183 and doxorubicin and
PM01183 and vinorelbine studies; and passage 9 in PM01183 and paclitaxel study), in
0.05 mL suspension of 50% Matrigel and 50% serum free medium, without antibiotics.
Tumor measurements were determined by using digital caliper (Fowler Sylvac,
S235PAT). The formula to calculate volume for a prolate ellipsoid was used to estimate
tumor volume (mm 3) from 2-dimensional tumor measurements: Tumor volume (mm 3)          =
[L x  W2 ] + 2, where L is the length and it is the longest diameter in mm, and W is the

                                             54
width and it is the shortest diameter in mm of a tumor. Assuming unit density, volume
was converted to weight (i.e., 1 mm   3
                                        = 1 mg). Tumor volume and animal body weights
were measured 2-3 times per week starting form the first day of treatment (Day 0).
Treatment tolerability was assesed by monitoring body weight evolution, clinical signs
as well as evidences of local damage in the injection site.
When tumors reached a volume of about 195 mm 3 in the study of PM01183 with
paclitaxel, a volume of about 158 mm 3 in the study of PM01183 with vinorelbine and a
volume of about 163.5 mm 3 in the study of PM01183 with doxorubicin, the mice were
randomly allocated into the treatments and control groups (N = 5-7/group) based on
body weight and tumor volumen measurements by using NewLab Oncology Software
(version 2.25.06.00).
PM01183 was provided in the form of vials of lyophilized PM01183 cake which was
reconstituted with water for infusion to a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL. The PM01 183
stock solution was further diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection to the dosing
formulation concentrations. Doxorubicin was provided in the form of a solid powder
containing Doxorubicin     HCI,   which was reconstituted      in 0.9%     saline solution.
Vinorelbine was provided as a solution prepared by diluting the product with 0.9 %
saline solution. Paclitaxel was provided in the form of a solution prepared by diluting
the product with 5 % glucose solution for injection to the target final concentration.
In these experiments, PM01183 and paclitaxel, PM01183 and vinorelbine and
PM01183 and doxorubicin treatments, as well as placebo, were intravenously
administered once per week up to 2 consecutive weeks on Days 0 and 7. Dose level
groups were administered either as single agents or in combination.
Comparison of the median tumor volume in the treatment groups (T) to the median
tumor volume in the control group (T/C x 100%) was used for evaluation of the
antitumor efficacy. In addition, potentiation was determined when the response of the
combination group was greater than the best response of the most active agent
administered as single agent (monotherapy) on the same schedule and dose as those
used in the combination therapy.
Finally, the combination index (CI), that quantitatively measures the degree of drug
interactions, was obtained from the fractions affected by the treatment, Fa (defined as
1 -T/C)    for each experimental group at the last measurement day (Day 10 for
PM01183 and paclitaxel combination study, and PM01183 and doxorubicin study, and

                                           55
Day 9 for PM01 183 and vinorelbine study) using the median-effect principle (Chou T.C.
Pharmacol. Rev. 2006, 58, 621-681).
Table 13 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01 183 and paclitaxel both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 263
shows the tumor volume evaluation of A2780 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, paclitaxel, and the corresponding combinations for the groups dosed at the
two highest ratios.
Table 13
                                                        % T/C on day
   Group             Dose        maTeials           0        3      5        7     10
    G01
  (Control          10 ml/kg       Placebo          -        -       -       -
   group)
    G02          0.18 mg/kg       PM01183         101.6    68.9    83.1    69.1   52.8
    G03         0.135 mg/kg       PM01183         101.2    89.9    99.8    84.5   61.2
    G04          0.09 mg/kg       PM01183         94.2     88.5   114.1    103.3  88.0
    G05         0.045 mg/kg       PM01183         94.0     91.1    99.6    88.0   73.1
    G06            25 mg/kg       Paclitaxel      95.3     49.3    42.9    34.0   19.8
    G07          18.75 mg/kg      Paclitaxel      95.0     60.4    43.2    41.5   31.1
    G08           12.5 mg/kg      Paclitaxel      96.2     62.5    73.9    62.5   50.8
    G09          6.25 mg/kg       Paclitaxel      94.3     60.2    79.7    81.3   59.2
    G10          0.18 mg/kg       PM0 183         93.3     45.9    28.8    20.9    9.2
                   25 mg/kg       Paclitaxel
    G11         0.135 mg/kg       PM0 183         93.4     40.5    37.1    36.0   22.6
                 18.75 mg/kg      Paclitaxel
    G12          0.09 mg/kg       PM0 183         96.5     64.3    67.7    73.2   49.0
                  12.5 mg/kg      PaclitaxelI
    G13         0.045 mg/kg       PM01183         96.2     78.6    89.1    91.1   77.2
                 6.25 mg/kg       Paclitaxel
Placebo: lyophilised cake containing 100 mg Sucrose + Potassium dihydrogen
phosphate 6.8 mg + Phosphoric acid q.s. pH 3.8-4.5, which was reconstituted with 1
mL of water for infusion.
Table 14 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01183 and vinorelbine both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 264
shows the tumor volume evaluation of A2780 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01 183, vinorelbine, and the corresponding combinations for the groups dosed at the
two highest ratios.

                                            56
Table 14
                                                      % T/C on day
     Group            Dose            Test         0        2      5      7       9
                                    materials
      G01
    (Control         10 ml/kg        Placebo       -         -     -       -
     group)
      G02          0.18 mg/kg       PM01183      98.9     101.6  72.2    61.3   62.8
      G03         0.135 mg/kg       PM01183      98.3     105.3  77.2    79.1   78.7
      G04          0.09 mg/kg       PM01183      98.0      88.6  61.2    87.6   94.5
      G05         0.045 mg/kg       PM01183      97.8     107.5  93.6    92.5   97.1
      G06          16.0 mg/kg      Vinorelbine   99.0      62.5  20.8    24.5   20.0
      G07          12.0 mg/kg      Vinorelbine   97.4      67.2  39.1    43.0   36.1
      G08           8.0 mg/kg      Vinorelbine   97.6      79.5  45.0    54.2   47.9
      G09           4.0 mg/kg      Vinorelbine   97.2      88.6  69.3    81.7   77.3
      G10          0.18 mg/kg       PM01183      97.3      50.1   10.9   10.6    8.6
                   16.0 mg/kg      Vinorelbine
      G11         0.135 mg/kg      Vnoe b8ne     97.2      74.0  29.6    31.2   26.8
                   0.0 mg/kg        PM01183in
      G12          0.09 mg/kg      V no          96.8      69.3  48.3    56.5   49.8
                    8.0 mg/kg      VinorelbineI                        I      I
      G13         0.045 mg/kg       PM01183      97.1      85.6  61.7    74.2   8
                    4.0 mg/kg      Vinorelbine
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.
Table 15 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01183 and doxorubicin both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 265
shows the tumor volume evaluation of A2780 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, doxorubicin, and the corresponding combinations for the groups dosed at
the two highest ratios.

                                             57
Table 15
                                                           % T/C on day
      Group             Dose            Test            0        3      5       7     10
                                     materials
       G01
     (Control         10 ml/kg        Placebo           -        -       -      -
      group)
       G02          0.18 mg/kg       PM01183         100.9     70.2    68.5   69.3   62.1
       G03         0.135 mg/kg       PM01183         102.2     82.4    86.6   89.2   82.4
       G04          0.09 mg/kg       PM01183         100.2     93.3    95.2   93.5   87.7
       G05         0.045 mg/kg       PM01183         100.1     98.2    98.6   97.7   90.0
       G06           8.0 mg/kg      Doxorubicin       99.5     60.8    49.8   48.1   39.4
       G07           6.0 mg/kg      Doxorubicin       99.4     71.0    60.3   56.8   54.3
       G08           4.0 mg/kg      Doxorubicin      102.0     82.9    75.1   75.0   68.9
       G09           2.0 mg/kg      Doxorubicin       99.8     91.5    93.1   94.2   86.2
       G10          0. 18 mg/kg      PM01 183         99.7     47.6    32.6   30.3   21.1
                     8.0 mg/kg      Doxorubicin
       G11         0. 135 mg/kg      PM01 183        100.6     67.0    54.9   53.9   44.9
                     6.0 mg/kg      Doxorubicin
       G12          0.09 mg/kg      DPM0r1ubcn        98.3     74.7    69.0   63.1   64.4
       G13         0.045 mg/kg       PM01183          98.1     83.1    86.6   78.1   79.2
                     2.0 mg/kg      Doxorubicin
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.
        According to these assays it was found that:
a. The combination treatment of PM01183 and paclitaxel was effective in the inhibition
of the growth of the A2780 ovarian cells, resulting in a statistically significant (P<0.01)
tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of 9.2% and 22.6%
(Day 10) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination of PM01183 and
paclitaxel produced lower T/C values than the more active single agent in this
experiment (paclitaxel at doses of 25 mg/kg and 18.75 mg/kg). Specifically, the TC (%)
values of the combination (25 mg/kg paclitaxel + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs paclitaxel
alone (25 mg/kg paclitaxel) were 28.8 vs 42.9 (day 5), 20.9 vs 34.0 (day 7), and 9.2 vs
19.8 (day 10), and the TC (%) values of the combination (18.75 mg/kg paclitaxel +
0.135 mg/kg PM01183) vs paclitaxel alone (18.75 mg/kg paclitaxel) were 37.1 vs 43.2
(day 5), 36.0 vs 41.5 (day 7), and 22.6 vs 31.1 (day 10). Therefore, when PM01183 is
combined with paclitaxel a potentiation of the antitumor activity is clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and
paclitaxel resulted in Cl values less than 1 (at Fa higher than 0.8), indicating synergism
in mice bearing ovarian A2780 xenografted tumors.

                                              58
b. The combination treatment of PM01183 and vinorelbine was effective in the
inhibition of the growth of the A2780 ovarian cells, resulting in a statistically significant
(P<0.01) tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of 8.6% and
26.8% (Day 9) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination of PM01 183
and vinorelbine produced lower T/C values than the more active single agent in this
experiment (vinorelbine at doses of 16 mg/kg and 12 mg/kg). Specifically, the TC (%)
values of the combination (16 mg/kg vinorelbine + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs vinorelbine
alone (16 mg/kg vinorelbine) were 10.9 vs 20.8 (day 5), 10.6 vs 24.5 (day 7), and 8.6
vs 20.0 (day 9), and the TC (%) values of the combination (12 mg/kg vinorelbine +
0.135 mg/kg PM01183) vs vinorelbine alone (12 mg/kg vinorelbine) were 29.6 vs 39.1
(day 5), 31.2 vs 43 (day 7), and 26.8 vs 36.1 (day 9). Therefore, when PM01183 is
combined with vinorelbine a potentiation of the antitumor activity is clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and
vinorelbine resulted in Cl values of 0.75 (at Fa equal to 0.97), indicating synergism in
mice bearing ovarian A2780 xenografted tumors.
c. The combination treatment of PM01183 and doxorubicin was effective in the
inhibition of the growth of the A2780 ovarian cells, resulting in a statistically significant
(P<0.01) tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of 21.1% and
44.9% (Day 10) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination of
PM01183 and doxorubicin produced lower T/C values than the more active single
agent in this experiment (doxorubicin at a dose of 8 mg/kg). Specifically, the TC (%)
values of the combination (8 mg/kg doxorubicin + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs doxorubicin
alone (8 mg/kg doxorubicin) were 32.6 vs 49.8 (day 5), 30.3 vs 48.1 (day 7), and 21.1
vs 39.4 (day 10). Therefore, when PM01183               is combined with doxorubicin a
potentiation of the antitumor activity is clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and
doxorubicin resulted in Cl values less than 1 (at Fa higher than 0.8), indicating
synergism in mice bearing ovarian A2780 xenografted tumors.
EXAMPLE 14. In vivo studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil in human gastric tumor xenografts.
The aim of these studies was to evaluate the ability of PM01183 to potentiate the
antitumor activity of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil by using a xenograft model of human
gastric carcinoma.

                                             59
Female athymic nude mice (Harlan Laboratories Models, S.L. (Barcelona, Spain) were
utilized for all experiments. Animals were housed in individually ventilated cages, up to
ten per cage in a 12-hour light-dark cycle at 21-23 0C  and 40-60 % humidity. The mice
were allowed free access to irradiated standard rodent diet and sterilized water.
Animals were acclimated for at least 5 days prior to tumor implantation with a tumor cell
suspension.
The tumor model used in these studies was HGC-27 cell line, which was obtained from
the European Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC n* 94042256).
HGC-27 cells were grown at 37 *C with 5 % CO 2 in Iscove's modified Dulbeco's
medium (IDMD). Each animal was subcutaneously implanted on the right flank, using
26G needle and a 1 cc syringe, with 5x10      6 HGC-27 cells (from in vitro passage 4 in
PM01183 and cisplatin study, and passage 6 in PM01183 and 5-fluorouracil study), in
0.05 mL suspension of 50% Matrigel and 50% serum free medium, without antibiotics.
Tumor measurements and treatment tolerability were performed and determined as
disclosed in Example 13.
When tumors reached a volume of about 165.5 mm 3 in the study of PM01183 with
cisplatin and a volume of about 170 mm 3 in the study of PM01183 with 5-fluorouracil,
mice were randomly allocated into the treatments and control groups (N = 5-7/group)
based on body weight and tumor volumen measurements by using NewLab Oncology
Software (version 2.25.06.00).
PM01183 was provided in the form of vials of lyophilized PM01183 cake which was
reconstituted with water for infusion to a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL. The PM01 183
stock solution was further diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection to the dosing
formulation concentrations. Cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil were provided as solutions
prepared by diluting the product with 0.9 % saline solution for injection to the target
final concentration.
In these experiments, PM01183 and cisplatin and PM01183 and 5-fluorouracil
treatments, as well as placebo, were intravenously administered once per week up to 2
consecutive weeks on Days 0 and 7. Dose level groups were administered either as
single agents or in combination.
Comparison of the median tumor volume in the treatment groups (T) to the median
tumor volume in the control group (T/C x 100%) was used for evaluation of the
antitumor efficacy. In addition,      potentiation and combination      index (CI)  were
determined as disclosed in Example 13.

                                           60
Table 16 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01183 and cisplatin both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 266
shows the tumor volume evaluation of HGC-27 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, cisplatin, and the corresponding combinations for the groups dosed at the
two highest ratios.
Table 16
                                                          % T/C on day
    Group            Dose     Test materials   0    3     5     7     10   12     14
                                  Placebo       -    -    -     -      -    -
 (Conto group)      10 ml/kg
     G02         0.18 mg/kg      PM01183      99.6 65.9 55.6  38.7   33.5 24.3   24.3
     Gm3                         PM01183      97.9 71.6 59.9  47.8   39.3 37.1   38.3
     G04         0.09 mg/kg      PM01183      98.6 67.5 67.9  66.1   70.2 60.3   65.0
     G05                         PM01183      98.9 85.9 83.1  92.1   76.4 81.6   88.5
     G06          6.0  mg/kg     Cisplatin    97.7 76.1 79.0  75.1   64.4 61.3   72.7
     G07          4.5  mg/kg     Cisplatin    98.5 90.5 94.5  90.2   75.7 73.7   81.1
     G08          3.0  mg/kg     Cisplatin    99.0 78.6 80.0  78.7   81.3 82.8   85.1
     G09          1.5  mg/kg     Cisplatin    99.3 78.1 78.8  82.6   83.5 86.6   89.9
     G10         0.18 mg/kg      PM01 183     95.7 55.0 42.4  22.3   12.9  7.6    4.6
                  6.0 mg/kg      Cisplatin
                        0.135    PM01 183
     G11             mg/kg       Cisplatin    99.2 67.7 42.7  28.6   17.3 12.1    9.8
                  4.5 mg/kg
     G12         0.09 mg/kg      PM01 183     99.9 80.0 64.3  45.7   47.2 42.4   56.7
                  3.0 mg/kg      Cisplatin
                        0.045    PM01 183
     G13             mg/kg       Cisplatin    99.9 93.3 83.0  75.9   69.3 70.3   80.0
                  1.5 mg/kg
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.
Table 17 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01183 and 5-fluorouracil both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 267
shows the tumor volume evaluation of HGC-27 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, 5-fluorouracil, and the corresponding combinations combinations for the
groups dosed at the two highest ratios.

                                            61
Table 17
                                                           % T/C on day
                Dose           Test         0    2      5        7       9      12     14
    Group
                            materials
     GO1
   (Control    10 ml/kg      Placebo        -    -       -        -       -      -
    group)
     G02        mg/k        PM01183       99.6  78.6   50.9    43.3    41.0    33.0   29.2
     G03        0.135       PM01183      100.2  81.5   58.7     61.4   60.2    54.6   55.1
                mg/kg
     G04        mg/k        PM01183      100.6  90.5   87.6     83.4   82.6    76.7   67.7
                0.045
     G05        mg/kg       PM01183       99.9  84.3  103.2    104.6  103.5   101.6   85.0
                 50.0
     G06        mg/kg     5-Fluorouracil 100.3  81.2   82.3     81.1   75.6    69.6   60.7
                 37.5
     G07        mg/kg     5-Fluorouracil  99.4  86.9   86.9     78.6   73.2    76.7   83.1
                 25.0
     G08        mg/kg     5-Fluorouracil 100.6  89.8   97.0    111.4  102.6    93.9   82.8
                 12.5
     G09        mg/kg     5-Fluorouracil 100.7  81.7  101.3    102.8   98.6    90.5   83.8
                 0.18
     G10        mg/kg       PM01o183      99.6  73.0
                 50.0     5-Fluorouracil 9.      304. 44.2      35.9
                                                                 59    31.5
                                                                       3.       532. 22.0
                                                                               25.3
                mg/kg
                0.135
     G11        mg/kg     5-F or1ouracil 100.8  73.4   63.5     53.1   50.6    42.8   51.1
                mg/kg
                 0.09
     G12        mg/kg     5-F or1ouracil  99.6  95.8   97.7     98.9   90.0    74.7   69.9
                mg/kg
                0.045
     G13        mg/kg     5-F or1ouracil  99.5  80.6   87.3     88.5   99.3    87.1   84.2
                mg/kg
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.
        According to these assays it was found that:
a. The combination treatment of PM01 183 and cisplatin was effective in the inhibition of
the growth of the HGC-27 gastric cells, resulting in a statistically significant (P<0.01)
tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of 4.6% and 9.8% (Day
14) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination of PM01183 and
cisplatin produced lower T/C values than the more active single agent in this
experiment (PM01183 at doses of 0.18 mg/kg and 0.135 mg/kg). Specifically, the TC
(%) values of the combination (6 mg/kg cisplatin + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs PM01183

                                            62
alone (0.18 mg/kg PM01183) were 12.9 vs 33.5 (day 10), 7.6 vs 24.3 (day 12), and 4.6
vs 24.3 (day 14), and the TC (%) values of the combination (4.5 mg/kg cisplatin +
0.135 mg/kg PM01183) vs PM01183 alone (0.135 mg/kg PM01183) were 17.3 vs 39.3
(day 10), 12.1 vs 37.1 (day 12), and 9.8 vs 38.3 (day 14). Therefore, when PM01183 is
combined with paclitaxel a potentiation of the antitumor activity is clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and
cisplatin resulted in Cl values less than 1 (at Fa higher than 0.8), indicating synergism
in mice bearing gastric HGC-27 xenografted tumors.
b. The combination treatment of PM01183 and 5-fluorouracil was effective in the
inhibition of the growth of the HGC-27 gastric cells, resulting in a statistically significant
(P<0.01) tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of 22.0% and
51.1%     (Day 14) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination of
PM01183 and 5-fluorouracil produced lower T/C values than the more active single
agent in this experiment (PM01183 at a dose of 0.18 mg/kg). Specifically, the TC (%)
values of the combination (50 mg/kg 5-fluorouracil + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs
PM01183 alone (0.18 mg/kg PM01183) were 35.9 vs 43.3 (day 7), 31.5 vs 41.0 (day
9), 25.3 vs 33.0 (day 12), and 22.0 vs 29.2 (day 14). Therefore, when PM01183 is
combined with 5-fluorouracil a potentiation of the antitumor activity is clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and 5
fluorouracil resulted in Cl values of 0.78 (at Fa equal to 0.97), indicating moderate
synergism in mice bearing gastric HGC-27 xenografted tumors.
EXAMPLE 15. In vivo studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
gemcitabine in human pancreatic tumor xenografts.
The aim of these studies was to evaluate the ability of PM01183 to potentiate the
antitumor activity of gemcitabine by using a xenograft model of human pancreatic
cancer.
Female athymic nude mice (Harlan Laboratories Models, S.L. (Barcelona, Spain) were
utilized for all experiments. Animals were housed in individually ventilated cages, up to
ten per cage in a 12-hour light-dark cycle at 21-23  0C  and 40-60 % humidity. The mice
were allowed free access to irradiated standard rodent diet and sterilized water.
Animals were acclimated for at least 5 days prior to tumor implantation with a tumor cell
suspension.

                                               63
The tumor model used in these studies was SW1 990 cell line, which was obtained from
the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC: CRL-2172TM).
SW1990 cells were grown at 37 *C with 5 % CO 2 in RPMI-1640 medium. Each animal
was subcutaneously implanted on the right flank, using 26G needle and a 1 cc syringe,
with 5x10 6 SW1990 cells, from in vitro passage 12, in 0.05 mL suspension of 50%
Matrigel and 50% serum free medium, without antibiotics.
Tumor measurements and treatment tolerability were performed and determined as
disclosed in Example 13.
When tumors reached a volume of about 210 mm 3 mice were randomly allocated into
the treatments and control groups (N = 5-7/group) based on body weight and tumor
volumen measurements by using NewLab Oncology Software (version 2.25.06.00).
PM01183 was provided in the form of vials of lyophilized PM01183 cake which was
reconstituted with water for infusion to a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL. The PM01 183
stock solution was further diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection to the dosing
formulation concentrations. Gemcitabine was provided as a solution prepared by
reconstituting the product with 0.9 % saline solution for injection to a concentration of
40 mg/ml stock solution. The gemcitabine stock solution was further diluted with 0.9 %
saline solution for injection to the target final concentration.
In these experiments, PM01 183 and gemcitabine treatment, as well as placebo, were
intravenously administered once per week up to 3 consecutive weeks on Days 0, 7 and
14. Dose level groups were administered either as single agents or in combination.
Comparison of the median tumor volume in the treatment groups (T) to the median
tumor volume in the control group (T/C x 100%) was used for evaluation of the
antitumor efficacy. In addition, potentiation and combination index were determined as
disclosed in Example 13.
Table 18 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01183 and gemcitabine both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 268
shows the tumor volume evaluation of SW1990 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01 183, gemcitabine, and the corresponding combinations for the groups dosed at
the two highest ratios.

                                            64
Table 18
                                                              % T/C on day
  Group               Dose     Test materials      0      3       6      8      10     13
    G01
 (Control           10 ml/kg        Placebo        -       -       -      -      -
  group)
    G02           0.18 mg/kg       PM01183       100.0   74.3    61.3   59.4   56.7   56.1
    G03          0.135 mg/kg       PM01183       99.6    81.3    71.0   73.1   65.6   63.1
    G04           0.09 mg/kg       PM01183       101.1   81.5    72.8   68.7   68.4   74.4
    G05          0.045 mg/kg       PM01183       100.2   83.6    82.8   93.3   82.9   88.1
    G06          180.0 mg/kg    Gemcitabine      102.2   84.1    73.9   66.1   60.9   59.4
    G07          135.0mg/kg     Gemcitabine      102.3   78.3    71.9   63.7   55.4   52.7
    G08           90.0 mg/kg    Gemcitabine      103.8   70.0    73.8   63.3   55.6   54.8
    G09          45.0 mg/kg     Gemcitabine      102.3   85.5    70.3   70.5   63.3   64.8
    G10           0. 18 mg/kg      PM01 183      102.1   69.7    51.2   46.2   36.0   34.1
   ________180.0        mng/kg  Gemcitabine
    G11          0.135 mg/kg       PM01 183      100.4   64.6    52.8   51.5   48.9   46.0
   _______135.0         mng/kg  Gemcitabine
    G12           0.09 mg/kg       PM01 183      98.2    83.2    64.4   59.7   50.6   49.6
   ______         90.0 mng/kg   Gemcitabine    I       I       I      I      I      I
    G13          0.045 mg/kg       PM01 183      97.7    81.6    70.9   68.8   65.9   65.7
Placeb: a         45.0 mng/kg   Gemcitabine
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.

                                             65
Table 18 (Cont.)
                                                              % T/C on day
    Group            Dose        Test materials      15   17     20      22     24    28
     G01
   (Control         10 ml/kg          Placebo         -    -      -       -      -
    group)
     G02          0.18 mg/kg         PM01183        53.2 47.8  44.2     45.3   44.8  38.9
     G03         0.135 mg/kg         PM01183        56.3 56.7  56.9     56.5   53.0  51.7
     G04          0.09 mg/kg         PM01183        74.7 80.7  71.9     75.4   77.3  63.9
     G05         0.045 mg/kg         PM01183        92.6 86.5  85.1     84.5   85.8  85.4
     G06         180.0 mg/kg        Gemcitabine     58.5 52.1  49.1     48.6   46.9  39.3
     G07         135.0mg/kg         Gemcitabine     54.8 51.2  49.5     48.7   49.8  49.5
     G08          90.0 mg/kg        Gemcitabine     49.9 47.4  47.6     47.0   45.9  49.2
     G09         45.0 mg/kg         Gemcitabine     63.1 58.5  58.7     57.3   65.2  59.3
     G10          0. 0 mg/kg        G m itabine     34.7 31.6  31.7     28.0   26.0  22.7
         Gil       0.35mg/kg         Pem01183i
     G11          135   mg/kg       G m itabine     42.4 38.2  36.6     34.6   31.5  25.8
                 13 .0 mg/kg         Pem01183i
     G12           0.0 mg/kg          m itabine     47.4 46.0  43.8     49.1   46.0  42.9
     G13         00 45 mg/kg        G m itabine     57.9 59.9  55.9     54.9   52.1  50.5
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.
         According to this assay it was found that:
a. The combination treatment of PM01183 and gemcitabine was effective in the
inhibition of the growth of the SW 1990 pancreatic cells, resulting in a statistically
significant (P<0.01) tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of
22.7% and 25.8% (Day 28) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination
of PM01183 and gemcitabine produced lower T/C values than the more active single
agent in this experiment (PM01183 at a dose of 0.18 mg/kg). Specifically, the TC (%)
values of the combination (180 mg/kg gemcitabine + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs
PM01183 alone (0.18 mg/kg PM01183) were 31.7 vs 44.2 (day 20), 28.0 vs 45.3 (day
22), 26.0 vs 44.8 (day 24), and 22.7 vs 38.9 (day 28).Therefore, when PM01183 is
combined with gemcitabine a potentiation of the antitumor activity is clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and
gemcitabine resulted in Cl values less than 1 (at Fa higher than 0.8), indicating
synergism in mice bearing pancreatic SW 1990 xenografted tumors.

                                            66
EXAMPLE 16. In vivo studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
temozolomide in human brain tumor xenografts.
The aim of these studies was to evaluate the ability of PM01183 to potentiate the
antitumor activity of temozolomide by using a xenograft model of human brain tumor.
Female athymic nude mice (Harlan Laboratories Models, S.L. (Barcelona, Spain) were
utilized for all experiments. Animals were housed in individually ventilated cages, up to
ten per cage in a 12-hour light-dark cycle at 21-23  0C and 40-60 % humidity. The mice
were allowed free access to irradiated standard rodent diet and sterilized water.
Animals were acclimated for at least 5 days prior to tumor implantation with a tumor cell
suspension.
The tumor model used in these studies was U87-MG cell line, which was obtained from
the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC HTB-14TM).
U87-MG cells were grown at 37 *C with 5 % CO      2 in Minimum Essential Medium Eagle
(MEME). Each animal was subcutaneously implanted on the right flank, using 26G
needle and a 1 cc syringe, with 5x10 6 U87-MG cells, from in vitro passage 5, in 0.05
mL suspension of 50% Matrigel and 50% serum free medium, without antibiotics.
Tumor measurements and treatment tolerability were performed and determined as
disclosed in Example 13.
When tumors reached a volume of about 139 mm 3 , mice were randomly allocated into
the treatments and control groups (N = 5-7/group) based on body weight and tumor
volumen measurements by using NewLab Oncology Software (version 2.25.06.00).
PM01183 was provided in the form of vials of lyophilized PM01183 cake which was
reconstituted with water for infusion to a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL. The PM01 183
stock solution was further diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection to the dosing
formulation concentrations. Temozolomide was provided as a solution prepared by
diluting the product in DMSO 10% in 0.9 % saline solution for injection to the target
final concentration.
In these experiments, PM01183 and temozolomide treatments, as well as placebo,
were administered as follows: PM01 183, intravenously once per week up to 3
consecutive weeks, on Days 0, 7 and 14, temozolomide orally, in a daily basis during 8
consecutive days (Days 0 to 7), and placebo was administered following the same
schedule as those provided for PM01 183 and temozolomide. Dose level groups were
administered either as single agents or in combination.

                                          67
Comparison of the median tumor volume in the treatment groups (T) to the median
tumor volume in the control group (T/C x 100%) was used for evaluation of the
antitumor efficacy. In   addition, potentiation and   combination  index (CI)   were
determined as disclosed in Example 13.
Table 19 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01183 and temozolomide both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 269
shows the tumor volume evaluation of U87-MG tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01 183, temozolomide, and the corresponding combinations for the groups dosed at
the two highest ratios.

                                              68
Table 19
                                                         % T/C on day
 Group      Dose          Test           0      2    4      7     9      11     14   16
                       materials
(Control    ml/kg       Placebo          -       -    -     -      -      -      -
 group)
  G02                  PM01183         99.8   95.5  64.8  63.2   52.0   44.1   38.5 37.1
  G03      mg/kg       PM01183         98.5   90.5  61.2  71.3   67.7   65.3   64.2 63.6
  G 4        0         PM01183         97.9   99.5  74.4  85.1   69.4   71.8   74.1 73.5
            0.045
  G05      mg/kg       PM01183         98.2   101.0 80.4  83.8   78.8   77.7   76.7 82.5
              3.0
  G06      mg/kg    Temozolomide       97.1   95.5  67.3  39.4   25.3   22.9   28.4 31.5
              1.5
  G07      mg/kg    Temozolomide       94.1   96.9  75.6  73.0   56.5   59.3   50.0 53.5
              1.0
  G08      mg/kg    Temozolomide       98.2   100.2 65.1  81.2   55.0   63.5   73.1 75.0
             0.75
  G09      mg/kg    Temozolomide       97.7   98.9  76.3  77.3   64.4   63.1   62.8 72.7
             0.18
  G10      mg/kg    Temoz      mide    97.8   95.0  50.9  33.1   21.0   18.3   16.6 17.4
           mg/kg
            0.135
  G11      mg/kg    Temoz      mide    98.7   102.4 62.7  42.0   30.3   29.1   29.0 30.9
           mg/kg
             0.09
  G12      mg/kg       PM01 183        96.2   101.0 79.3  76.1   49.8   51.2   57.6 56.5
              1.0   Temozolomide
           mg/kg
            0.045
  G13      mg/kg    Temozo mide         101   106.0 67.4  73.0   57.8   59.0   69.3 72.2
           mg/kg   _                 I      III                       I      I
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.
         According to this assay it was found that:
a. The combination treatment of PM01 183 and temozolomide was effective in the
inhibition of the growth of the U87-MG brain tumor cells, resulting in a statistically
significant (P<0.01) tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of
17.4% and 30.9% (Day 16) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination
of PM01 183 and temozolomide produced lower T/C values than the more active single

                                              69
agent in this experiment (temozolomide at doses of 3 mg/kg and 1.5 mg/kg).
Specifically, the TC(%) values of the combination (3 mg/kg temozolomide + 0.18 mg/kg
PM01 183) vs temozolomide alone (3 mg/kg temozolomide) were 18.3 vs 22.9 (day 11),
16.6 vs 28.4 (day 14), and 17.4 vs 31.5 (day 16), and the TC (%) values of the
combination (1.5 mg/kg temozolomide + 0.135 mg/kg PM01183) vs temozolomide
alone (1.5 mg/kg temozolomide) were 29.1 vs 59.3 (day 11), 29.0 vs 50.0 (day 14), and
30.9 vs 53.5 (day 16). Therefore, when PM01183 is combined with temozolomide a
potentiation of the antitumor activity is clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and
temozolomide resulted in CI values less than 1 (at Fa higher than 0.8), indicating
synergism in mice bearing brain U87-MG xenografted tumors.
EXAMPLE 17. In vivo studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
irinotecan in human lung tumor xenografts.
The aim of these studies was to evaluate the ability of PM01183 to potentiate the
antitumor activity of iriniotecan by using a xenograft model of human lung cancer.
Female athymic nude mice (Harlan Laboratories Models, S.L. (Barcelona, Spain) were
utilized for all experiments. Animals were housed in individually ventilated cages, up to
ten per cage in a 12-hour light-dark cycle at 21-23    0C and 40-60 % humidity. The mice
were allowed free access to irradiated standard rodent diet and sterilized water.
Animals were acclimated for at least 5 days prior to tumor implantation with a tumor cell
suspension.
The tumor model used in these studies was H460 cell line, which was obtained from
the American Type Culture Collection of Cell Cultures (ATCC ref. HTB-1     7 7 TM)
H460 cells were grown at 37 *C with 5 % CO 2 in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium
(DMEM). Each animal was subcutaneously implanted on the right flank, using 26G
needle and a 1 cc syringe, with 5x10 6 H460 cells, from in vitro passage 10, in 0.05 mL
suspension of 50% Matrigel and 50% serum free medium, without antibiotics.
Tumor measurements and treatment tolerability were performed and determined as
disclosed in Example 13.
When tumors reached a volume of about 177 mm 3 , mice were randomly allocated into
the treatments and control groups (N = 5-7/group) based on body weight and tumor
volumen measurements by using NewLab Oncology Software (version 2.25.06.00).

                                           70
PM01183 was provided in the form of vials of lyophilized PM01183 cake which was
reconstituted with water for infusion to a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL. The PM01 183
stock solution was further diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection to the dosing
formulation concentrations. Irinotecan was provided in the form of a solution prepared
by diluting the product with 5 % glucose solution for injection to the target final
concentration.
In these experiments, PM01183 and irinotecan treatments, as well as placebo, were
intravenously administered as follows: PM01183 once per week up to 2 consecutive
weeks, on Days 0 and 7, irinotecan was dosed every 4 days, on Days 0, 4 and 8, and
placebo was administered following the same schedule as those provided for PM01 183
and irinotecan. Dose level groups were administered either as single agents or in
combination.
Comparison of the median tumor volume in the treatment groups (T) to the median
tumor volume in the control group (T/C x 100%) was used for evaluation of the
antitumor efficacy. In   addition, potentiation and    combination   index (CI)   were
determined as disclosed in Example 13.
Table 20 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01183 and irinotecan both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 270
shows the tumor volume evaluation of H460 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01183, irinotecan, and the corresponding combinations for the groups dosed at the
two highest ratios.
Table 20

                                              71
                                                                % T/C on day
                       Dose              Test        0       2      5      7      9     12
     Group
                                     materials
      G01
    (Control          10 ml/kg        Placebo        -       -       -      -      -
     group)
      G02           0.18 mg/kg       PM01183       114.4   79.6    74.7   75.0   69.1  64.9
      G03          0.135 mg/kg       PM01183       117.6   77.4    67.5   71.7   66.7  52.9
      G04           0.09 mg/kg       PM01183       116.9   83.1    83.9   76.9   80.6  84.9
      G05          0.045 mg/kg       PM01183       108.3   78.7    61.2   67.2   78.8  87.9
      G06           50.0  mg/kg      Irinotecan    112.1   54.9    34.7   27.5   24.8 22.9
      G07           37.5  mg/kg      Irinotecan    114.9   51.9    44.0   36.7   35.6  37.0
      G08           25.0  mg/kg      Irinotecan    112.0   55.6    54.9   49.6   53.1  51.8
      G09           12.5  mg/kg      Irinotecan    97.5    50.3    44.4   48.6   50.0  51.5
      G10           0.18 mg/kg       PM0183        117.1   44.3    19.4   13.4   10.9   9.0
                    50.0  mg/kg      Irinotecan
      G11          0.135 mg/kg       PM01183       111.2   51.7    23.8   18.4   15.7  15.3
                    37.5 mg/kg       Irinotecan
      G12           0.09 mg/kg       PM01183       110.0   53.2    38.1   26.6   28.0 27.1
                    25.0  mg/kg      IrinotecanI                 I      1      1
      G13          0.045 mg/kg       PM01183       109.0   60.4    60.1   56.5   60.0  58.5
                    12.5 mg/kg       Irinotecan
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.
        According to this assay it was found that:
a. The combination treatment of PM01183 and irinotecan was effective in the inhibition
of the growth of the H460 lung cells, resulting in a statistically significant (P<0.01)
tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of 9.0% and 15.3%
(Day 12) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination of PM01183 and
irinotecan produced lower T/C values than the more active single agent in this
experiment (irinotecan at doses of 50 mg/kg and 37.5 mg/kg). Specifically, the TC (%)
values of the combination (50 mg/kg irinotecan + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs irinotecan
alone (50 mg/kg irinotecan) were 19.4 vs 34.7 (day 5), 13.4 vs 27.5 (day 7), 10.9 vs
24.8 (day 9), and 9.0 vs 22.9 (day 12), and the TC (%) values of the combination (37.5
mg/kg irinotecan + 0.135 mg/kg PM01 183) vs irinotecan alone (37.5 mg/kg irinotecan)
were 23.8 vs 44.0 (day 5), 18.4 vs 36.7 (day 7), 15.7 vs 35.6 (day 9), and 15.3 vs 37.0
(day 12). Therefore, when PM01183 is combined with irinotecan a potentiation of the
antitumor activity is clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and
irinotecan resulted in Cl values less than 1 (at Fa higher than 0.8), indicating synergism
or strong synergism in mice bearing lung H460 xenografted tumors.

                                           72
EXAMPLE 18. In vivo studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
dacarbazine in human fibrosarcoma xenografts.
The aim of these studies was to evaluate the ability of PM01183 to potentiate the
antitumor activity of temozolomide by using a xenograft model of human fibrosarcoma.
Female athymic nude mice (Harlan Laboratories Models, S.L. (Barcelona, Spain) were
utilized for all experiments. Animals were housed in individually ventilated cages, up to
ten per cage in a 12-hour light-dark cycle at 21-23 0C  and 40-60 % humidity. The mice
were allowed free access to irradiated standard rodent diet and sterilized water.
Animals were acclimated for at least 5 days prior to tumor implantation with a tumor cell
suspension.
The tumor model used in these studies was HT1080 cell line, which was obtained from
the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC CCL-121TM).
HT1080 cells were grown at 37 *C with 5 % CO 2 in Minimum Essential Medium Eagle
(MEME). Each animal was orthotopically implanted into gastroecnemius muscle by an
intramuscular injection using 26G needle and a 1 cc syringe, with 5x10 6 HT1080 cells,
from in vitro passage 9, suspended in serum free medium, without antibiotics.
Total diameter (tumor + leg) measurements were determined by using digital caliper
(Fowler Sylvac, S235PAT). This total diameter and animal body weights were
measured 2-3 times per week starting from the first day of treatment.
Treatment tolerability was assesed by monitoring body weight evolution, clinical signs
as well as evidences of local damage in the injection site.
When total diameter reached a length of about 11.3 mm, mice were randomly allocated
into the treatments and control groups (N = 5-7/group) based on body weight and
tumor measurements by using NewLab Oncology Software (version 2.25.06.00).
PM01183 was provided in the form of vials of lyophilized PM01183 cake which was
reconstituted with water for infusion to a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL. The PM01 183
stock solution was further diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection to the dosing
formulation concentrations. Dacarbazine was provided in the form of a solution
prepared by diluting the product with 5 % glucose solution for injection to the target
final concentration.

                                            73
In these experiments, PM01 183 and dacarbazine treatments, as well as placebo, were
intravenously administered once per week up to 2 consecutive weeks, on Days 0 and
7. Dose level groups were administered either as single agents or in combination.
Comparison of the median total diameter (tumor + leg) in the treatment groups (T) to
the median total diameter (tumor + leg) in the control group (T/C x 100%) was used for
evaluation of the antitumor efficacy. In addition, potentiation and combination index (CI)
were determined as disclosed in Example 13.
Table 21 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01 183 and dacarbazine both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 271
shows the total diameter (tumor + leg) evaluation of HT1080 tumors in mice treated
with placebo, PM01 183, dacarbazine, and the corresponding combinations for the
groups dosed at the two highest ratios.

                                              74
 Table 21
                                                          % T/C on day
 Group      Dose    Test materials      0      2      4      7    9      11   14     16
  GO1          10
(Control    ml/kg       Placebo         -       -      -     -     -      -    -
 group)
  G 2        0         PM01183         100   59.3    40.0  26.9  26.7   11.5 21.2   30.6
            0.135
  G03       mg/kg      PM01183         100   63.0    62.9  48.1  36.0   30.2 33.0   41.9
  G 4        0         PM01183         100   66.7    57.1  65.4  48.0   42.7 45.8   56.4
            0.045
  G05       mg/kg      PM01183         100   77.8    74.3  94.2  80.0   74.0 80.5   91.1
            150.0
  G06       mg/kg     Dacarbazine      100   40.7    28.6  30.8  44.0   37.5 44.9   57.3
            112.5
  G07       mg/kg
            mg/kg     Dacarbazine      100   48.1    34.3  53.8  48.0   37.5 43.2   53.2
             75.0
  G08       mg/kg     Dacarbazine      100   74.1    65.7  69.2  58.7   45.8 46.6   51.6
             37.5
  G09       mg/kg     Dacarbazine      100   51.8    54.3  65.4  61.3   47.9 55.1   62.1
             0.18
  G10       1gk0      Daca    zine     100   37.0    22.9  17.3  4.0    10.4 -4.2    1.0
            mg/kg
            0.135
  G11       mg/kg      PM01 183        100   29.6    25.7  11.5  -8.0  -17.7 -6.8    7.3
            112.5     Dacarbazine
            mg/kg
             0.09
  G12       mg/kg     Dca     zine     100   37.0    31.4  28.8  52.0   43.7 50.8   64.5
            mg/kg                                  I_1_1
            0.045
  G13       mg/kg      PM01 183        100   55.6    51.4
                                                      146. 67.3  70.7
                                                                  076. 62.5  59.3   62.1
             37.5     Dacarbazine      10    5.                               93    6.
            mg/kg
 Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.
          According to this assay it was found that:
 a. The combination treatment of PM01183 and dacarbazine was effective in the
 inhibition of the growth of the HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells, resulting in a statistically
 significant (P<0.01) reduction of total diameter (tumor + leg) compared to the control
 group with T/C values of 1.0% and 7.3% (Day 16) in the two highly-dosed groups.
 Moreover, the combination of PM01 183 and dacarbazine produced lower T/C values
 than the more active single agent in this experiment (PM01 183 at doses of 0.18 mg/kg
 and 0.135 mg/kg). Specifically, the TC (%) values of the combination (150 mg/kg
 dacarbazine + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs PM01183 alone (0.18 mg/kg PM01183) were

                                            75
4.0 vs 26.7 (day 9), 10.4 vs 11.5 (day 11), -4.2 vs 21.2 (day 14), and 1.0 vs 30.6 (day
16), and the TC (%) values of the combination (112.5 mg/kg dacarbazine + 0.135
mg/kg PM01183) vs PM01183 alone (0.135 mg/kg PM01183) were -8.0 vs 36.0 (day
9), -17.7 vs 30.2 (day 11), -6.8 vs 33.0 (day 14), and 7.3 vs 41.9 (day 16).Therefore,
when PM01 183 is combined with dacarbazine a potentiation of the antitumor activity is
clearly observed.
Additionally, based on the median-effect principle, the combination of PM01183 and
dacarbazine resulted in CI values of 0.28 (at Fa equal to 0.97), indicating strong
synergism in mice fibrosarcoma HT1 080 orthotopically implanted tumors.
EXAMPLE 19. In vivo studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
irinotecan in human colorectal tumor xenografts.
The aim of these studies was to evaluate the ability of PM01183 to potentiate the
antitumor activity of irinotecan by using a xenograft model of human colorectal
carcinoma.
Female athymic nude mice (Harlan Laboratories Models, S.L. (Barcelona, Spain) were
utilized for all experiments. Animals were housed in individually ventilated cages, up to
ten per cage in a 12-hour light-dark cycle at 21-23   0C  and 40-60 % humidity. The mice
were allowed free access to irradiated standard rodent diet and sterilized water.
Animals were acclimated for at least 5 days prior to tumor implantation with a tumor cell
suspension.
The tumor model used in these studies was HT-29 cell line, which was obtained from
the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC ref. HTB-38TM).
HT-29 cells were grown at 37 *C with 5 % CO 2 in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium
(DMEM). Each animal was subcutaneously implanted on the right flank, using 26G
needle and a 1 cc syringe, with 5x10 6 HT-29 cells, from in vitro passage 10, in 0.05 mL
of 0.9% Sodium Chloride for injection.
Tumor measurements and treatment tolerability were performed and determined as
disclosed in Example 13. Treatment tolerability was assesed by monitoring body weight
evolution, clinical signs as well as evidences of local damage in the injection site.
When tumors reached a volume of about 180 mm 3 , mice were randomly allocated into
the treatments and control groups (N = 5-7/group) based on body weight and tumor
volumen measurements by using NewLab Oncology Software (version 2.25.06.00).

                                            76
PM01183 was provided in the form of vials of lyophilized PM01183 cake which was
reconstituted with water for infusion to a concentration of 0.2 mg/mL. The PM01 183
stock solution was further diluted in 5% glucose solution for injection to the dosing
formulation concentrations. Irinotecan was provided in the form of a solution prepared
by diluting the product with 5 % glucose solution for injection to the target final
concentration.
In these experiments, PM01183 and irinotecan treatments, as well as placebo, were
intravenously administered as follows: PM01183 once per week up to 3 consecutive
weeks, on Days 0, 7 and 14, irinotecan was dosed every 4 days, on Days 0, 4, 8, 12
and 16, and placebo was administered following the same schedule as those provided
for PM01183 and irinotecan. Dose level groups were administered either as single
agents or in combination.
Comparison of the median tumor volume in the treatment groups (T) to the median
tumor volume in the control group (T/C x 100%) was used for evaluation of the
antitumor efficacy. In addition, potentiation was determined as disclosed in Example
13.
Table 22 reports the % T/C values obtained with PM01183 and irinotecan both
administered as single agents and in combination for each dose level, and Figure 272
shows the tumor volume evaluation of HT-29 tumors in mice treated with placebo,
PM01 183, irinotecan, and the corresponding combinations for the groups dosed at the
two highest ratios.

                                             77
Table 22
                                                      % T/C on day
   Group           Dose           maTeials        0       3      5     7    10
    G01
  (Control        10 ml/kg         Placebo        -       -      -     -
   group)
    G02         0.18 mg/kg        PM01183       100.4  108.4   86.5  101.1 116.5
    G03        0.135 mg/kg        PM01183       98.4   106.4   95.3  116.6 115.2
    G04         0.09 mg/kg        PM01183       98.4   100.9   88.7  121.9 129.8
    G05        0.045 mg/kg        PM01183       99.8   103.7   100.6 111.1 135.8
    G06         50.0 mg/kg        Irinotecan    100.1  114.7   93.7  96.1  70.5
    G07         37.5 mg/kg        Irinotecan    98.4   108.1   97.5  99.2  84.3
    G08         25.0 mg/kg        Irinotecan    98.8   108.6   97.2  101.4 96.5
    G09         12.5 mg/kg        Irinotecan    99.0    99.1   90.6  97.4  92.7
    G10         0.18 mg/kg        PM0183        99.5   101.8   78.3  77.5  51.6
                50.0 mng/kg       Irinotecan
    G11        0.135 mg/kg        PM01183       98.4    98.0   85.2  85.4  60.7
                37.5 mng/kg       Irinotecan
    G12         0.09 mg/kg        PM01183       99.7    96.4   71.7  77.0  62.7
                25.0 mg/kg        Irinotecan
    G13        0.045 mg/kg        PM01183       100.7  104.8   104.3 116.0 98.8
                12.5 mg/kg        Irinotecan
Placebo: as disclosed in table 13.

                                              78
Table 22 (Cont.)
                                                        % T/C on day
        Group            Dose              Test      12        14      17      20
                                       materials
         G01
       (Control         10 mI/kg        Placebo       -         -       -
        group)
         G02          0.18 mg/kg       PM01183     115.4     123.4    86.7   77.5
         G03         0.135 mg/kg       PM01183     119.1     121.5   133.1   105.2
         G04          0.09 mg/kg       PM01183     114.1     109.4   116.1   93.4
         G05         0.045 mg/kg       PM01183     125.1     109.3
         G06          50.0 mg/kg       Irinotecan   61.7      51.7    41.4   33.3
         G07          37.5 mg/kg       Irinotecan   77.4      65.0    58.4   49.4
         G08          25.0 mg/kg       Irinotecan   79.3      82.5    76.3   60.3
         G09          12.5 mg/kg       Irinotecan   90.8      89.4   102.6   93.4
         G10          0.18 mg/kg       PM01183      43.8      30.4    21.7    15.6
                      50.0 mg/kg       Irinotecan
         G11         0.135 mg/kg       PM01183      51.9      40.1    39.2   28.7
                      37.5 mg/kg       Irinotecan
         G12          0.09 mg/kg       PM01183      57.7      50.1    47.2   40.7
                      25.0 mg/kg       Irinotecan
         G13         0.045 mg/kg       PM01183      85.5      90.5    88.1   76.5
                      12.5 mg/kg       Irinotecan
         Placebo: as disclosed in table 13
        According to this assay it was found that:
a. The combination treatment of PM01183 and irinotecan was effective in the inhibition
of the growth of the U87-MG brain tumor cells, resulting in a statistically significant
(P<0.01) tumor reduction compared to the control group with T/C values of 15.6% and
28.7% (Day 20) in the two highly-dosed groups. Moreover, the combination of
PM01 183 and irinotecan produced lower T/C values than the more active single agent
in this experiment (irinotecan at doses of 50 mg/kg and 37.5 mg/kg). Specifically, the
TC (%) values of the combination (50 mg/kg irinotecan + 0.18 mg/kg PM01183) vs
irinotecan alone (50 mg/kg irinotecan) were 30.4 vs 51.7 (day 14), 21.7 vs 41.4 (day
17), and 15.6 vs 33.3 (day 20), and the TC (%) values of the combination (37.5 mg/kg
irinotecan + 0.135 mg/kg PM01183) vs irinotecan alone (37.5 mg/kg irinotecan) were
40.1 vs 65.0 (day 14), 39.2 vs 58.4 (day 17), and 28.7 vs 49.4 (day 20). Therefore,
when PM01 183 is combined with irinotecan a potentiation of the antitumor activity is
clearly observed.
EXAMPLE 20. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01 183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human leukemia cell lines.

                                               79
         The    following   agents were      evaluated   in  combination   with  PM01183:
methotrexate, daunorubicin, aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104 (stock solutions
of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at -20*C). Additional serial
dilutions were       prepared in serum-free culture medium to achieve a final 4X
concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were added per well.
JURKAT and MOLT-4 were the human leukemia cell lines selected for this assay,
which were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC). JURKAT and
MOLT-4 cells were grown in phenol red-free RPMI medium supplemented with 10%
Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 units/mL of Penicillin
Streptomycin, at 37 *C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
The screening was performed in two parts:
a. In the first set of assays, the relative potency of each compound against the different
cell lines was determined using a 72 hours exposure in vitro cytotoxicity assay.
Briefky, cells were seeded in 96 well microtiter plates at a density of 50000 cells per
well in 150 pL of culture medium and incubated for 4-6 hours in drug-free medium
before treatment with vehicle alone or test compounds for 72 hours.
After incubation, the cytotoxic effect was evaluated using a MTT reduction assay. 50 [tL
of MTT solution (1 mg/mL) were added to the wells and incubated for 15-17 hours at
37 0 C until formazan crystals were formed. After gently removing the culture medium,
DMSO was added to dissolve the insoluble purple formazan product into a colored
solution. The absorbance of the wells was quantified by measuring the optical density
at 540 nm. Results were expressed as percentage of control cell growth. The EC50
values (half-maximal effective concentration) used for the combination studies were
calculated using Prism v5.02 software (GraphPad). EC50 was expressed as molar
concentration and represented the mean of at least three independent assays.
         The individual EC50 values obtained for each drug are shown in tables 23 and
24.
         Table 23: EC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agents for the
JURKAT tumor cell line.
   Compound           EC50 (M)     Compound          EC50 (M)   Compound        EC50 (M)
   Methotrexate       1.45E-07     Daunorubicin      7.92E-07     Aplidine      1.38E-08
      ET-743          6.96E-09       PM00104         4.83E-09     PM01183       1.55E-09

                                               80
    PM02734       5.50E-06
        Table 24: EC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agents for the
MoLT-4 tumor cell line.
   Compound         EC50 (M)        Compound          EC50 (M)  Compound      EC50 (M)
  Methotrexate      4.39E-08          Aplidine        1.27E-09    ET-743      3.84E-09
    PM00104         1.55E-09         PM01183          8.57E-10   PM02734      1.44E-05
b. In a second set of experiments, concentration-response curves for the agents tested,
both alone and in two-drug combination, were performed, using the same methodology
described in the previous paragraph.
Given the significant differences between the respective EC50 values for PM01 183 and
the other standard drugs in this satudy, different ratios of fixed concentrations for the
two drugs were used. Normally, the selection of the fixed ratios of concentrations were
the equipotent ratio (1:1) at the EC50 value for each drug, and some other ratios
representing different percentages of the corresponding EC50 values for each drug
above or below it. Using these starting concentrations, constant serial dilutions were
performed to generate the concentration-response curves for each set of drugs, alone
and in combination.
The effect of the two-drug combination, as compared with the effect of each drug
alone, on the viability of tumor cells, was evaluated using the Chou and Talalay method
which is based on the median-effect principle (Chou and Talalay, Adv. Enzyme Regul.
1984, 22, 27-55). The median-effect equation: fa/ f, = (C / Cm)m (where C is the drug
concentration, Cm the median-effect concentration (i.e., IC50, ED50, or LD50, that
inhibits the system under study by 50%), fa the cell fraction affected by the drug
concentration C, f, the unaffected fraction, and m the sigmoidicity coefficient of the
concentration-response curve), describes the relationship between the concentration
and the effect of a drug on a given biological system.
Based on this equation, the term "combination index" (CI) is used as a quantitative
measure of the degree of drug interactions. The combination index (CI) is determined
by the equation:
                                 Cl  = (C)1/(Cx)1+ (C)2 /(Cx)2
where (Cx)1 is the concentration of drug 1 alone that inhibits an x percentage of a
system, (Cx)2 the concentration of drug 2 alone that inhibits the same x percentage of

                                              81
the system, and (C1)   + (C)2 the concentrations of drug 1 and drug 2 that in combination
also inhibitis an X percentage of the system. CI values were calculated by solving the
equation for different values of fa (i.e., for different degrees of cell groth inhibition). CI
values of <1 indicate synergy, the value of 1 indicates additive effects, and values >1
indicate antagonism.
Data were analyzed using CalcuSyn software (Biosoft, Cambridge, UK). For statistical
analysis and graphs Prism software (GraphPad, San Diego, USA) was used. All the
results represent the mean of at least three independent experiments
The effect of the tested drug combinations on cell proliferation is shown in Figures 273
283:
- Combination of PM01183 with methotrexate. The combination of PM01183 with
methotrexate in JURKAT (Figure 273) cell line resulted in some synergistic effects
(Cl<1) at determined concentrations of both drugs. The effects of PM01183 in
combination with methotrexate in MOLT-4 (Figure 274) cell line were mostly additive.
- Combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin. The combination of PM01183 with
daunorubicin in JURKAT (Figure 275) cell line was additive or synergistic (Cl<1) at
determined concentrations of the compounds.
- Combination of PM01 183 with aplidine. The combinations of PM01 183 with aplidine in
JURKAT (Figure 276) and MOLT-4 (Figure 277) cell lines resulted in some synergistic
effects (Cl<1) at determined concentrations of both drugs.
- Combination of PM01183 with ET-743. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 in
JURKAT (Figure 278) cell line was additive or synergistic (CI<1) at determined
concentrations of both drugs. The combination of PM01183 with ET-743 in MOLT-4
(Figure 279) cell line was mostly additive.
- Combination of PM01183 with PM00104. The combination of PM01183 with
PM00104 in JURKAT (Figure 280) cell line was at least additive resulting in some
synergistic effects (Cl<1).The combination of PM01183 with PM00104 in MOLT-4
(Figure 281) cell line resulted in synergistic effects (Cl<1).

                                              82
- Combination of PM01183 with PM02734. The combination of PM01183 with
PM02734 in JURKAT (Figure 282) cell line was mostly additive, resulting in some
synergistic effects (Cl<1) at determined concentrations of both drugs. The combination
of PM01 183 with ET-743 in MOLT-4 (Figure 283) cell line resulted in synergistic effects
(Cl<1).
EXAMPLE 21. In vitro studies to determine the effect of PM01183 in combination with
chemotherapeutic agents on human lymphoma cell lines.
The following agents were evaluated in combination with PM01183: gemcitabine,
cytarabine, methotrexate, daunorubicin, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104               (stock
solutions of these compounds prepared in pure DMSO and stored at -20*C). Additional
serial dilutions were prepared in serum-free culture medium to achieve a final 4X
concentration. Aliquots of 50 pL of each diluted compound were added per well.
RAMOS and U-937 were the human lymphoma cell lines selected for this assay, which
were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC). RAMOS and U-937
cells were grown in phenol red-free RPMI medium supplemented with 10% Fetal
Bovine Serum (FBS), 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 units/mL of Penicillin-Streptomycin, at
37 *C, 5% C02 and 95% humidity.
The screening was performed in two parts, as previously described in example 20.
        In the first set of assays, the individual EC50 values were determined for each
drug as shown in tables 25 and 26.
        Table 25: EC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agents for the
RAMOS tumor cell line.
    Compound         EC50 (M)    Compound        EC50 (M)    Compound      EC50 (M)
   Gemcitabine       2.51 E-08    Cytarabine     3.64E-08   Methotrexate   5.02E-06
   Daunorubicin      3.15E-07       ET-743       9.55E-09     PM00104      4.35E-09
     PM01183         1.39E-09     PM02734         1.36E-05
        Table 26: EC50 values in molar concentration (M) for each of the agents for the
U-937 tumor cell line.
    Compound         EC50 (M)     Compound        EC50 (M)   Compound      EC50 (M)

                                               83
   Gemcitabine       3.27E-08     Methotrexate      2.63E-08    Daunorubicin 3.04E-07
       ET-743        8.62E-09      PM00104          4.50E-09     PM01183     1.03E-09
     PM02734        6.85E-06
        In the second set of assays, concentration-response curves for the agents
tested, both alone and in two-drug combination, were performed. The effects of the
drug combinations were evaluated using the Chou and Talalay method as described in
the example 20
The effect of the tested drug combinations on cell proliferation is shown in Figures 284
296:
 - Combination of PM01183 with cytarabine. The combination of PM01183 with
cytarabine in RAMOS (Figure 284) cell line resulted in some synergistic effects (Cl<1).
- Combination of PM01183 with methotrexate. The combination of PM01183 with
methotrexate in RAMOS (Figure 285) cell line resulted in some synergistic effects
(Cl<1) at determined concentrations of both drugs. The effects of PM01183 in
combination with methotrexate in U-937 (Figure 286) cell line resulted in some
synergistic effects at determined concentrations.
- Combination of PM01183 with gemcitabine. The combination of PM01183 with
gemcitabine in RAMOS (Figure 287) cell line was additive or synergistic (C1<1) at
determined concentrations of both drugs. The combination of PM01 183 with gemcitabine in
U-937 (Figure 288) cell line resulted in synergistic effects (Cl<1).
- Combination of PM01183 with daunorubicin. The combinations of PM01183 with
daunorubicin in RAMOS (Figure 289) and U-937 (Figure 290) cell lines were at least
additive resulting in some synergistic effects (C1<1).
- Combination of PM01 183 with ET-743. The combinations of PM01 183 with ET-743 in
RAMOS (Figure 291) and U-937 (Figure 292) cell lines resulted in synergistic effects
(Cl<1) at determined concentrations of the compounds.
- Combination of PM01183 with PM00104. The combination of PM01183 with
PM00104      in RAMOS       (Figure 293) resulted in synergistic effects (Cl<1). The

                                           84
combination of PM01183 with PM00104 in U-937 (Figure 294) cell line resulted in
some synergistic effects (Cl<1) at determined concentrations of both drugs.
- Combination of PM01183 with PM02734. The combination of PM01183 with
PM02734 in RAMOS (Figure 295) cell line resulted in synergistic effects (Cl<1), while
the combination of PM01183 with ET-743 in U-937 (Figure 296) cell line was at least
additive, resulting in some synergistic effects (Cl<1) at high concentrations of both
drugs.

                                            85
                                          Claims
1.      A method of treating cancer comprising administering to a patient in need of
such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and a therapeutically effective amount of another anticancer
drug selected from proteasome inhibitors, nonclassical alkylating agents, mTOR
inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, histone deacetylase inhibitors, antimetabolites,
anticancer antibiotics, antitumor platinum coordination complexes, mitotic inhibitors,
topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitors, nitrogen mustard alkylating agents, nitrosourea
alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists, androgen antagonists, and other agents
selected from aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104.
2.      A method of increasing the therapeutic efficacy of an anticancer drug selected
from proteasome inhibitors, nonclassical alkylating agents, mTOR inhibitors, tyrosine
kinase inhibitors, histone deacetylase inhibitors, antimetabolites, anticancer antibiotics,
antitumor platinum coordination complexes, mitotic inhibitors, topoisomerase I and/or II
inhibitors, nitrogen mustard alkylating agents, nitrosourea alkylating agents, estrogen
antagonists, androgen antagonists, and other agents selected from aplidine, ET-743,
PM02734 and PM00104 in the treatment of cancer, which comprises administering to a
patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of PM01183, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in conjunction with said anticancer drug.
3.      The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and the other anticancer drug selected from proteasome
inhibitors, nonclassical alkylating agents, mTOR inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors,
histone    deacetylase inhibitors,   antimetabolites,  anticancer antibiotics, antitumor
platinum coordination complexes, mitotic inhibitors, topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitors,
nitrogen mustard alkylating agents, nitrosourea alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists,
androgen antagonists, and other agents selected from aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and
PM00104 form part of the same medicament.
4.      The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and the other anticancer drug selected from proteasome
inhibitors, nonclassical alkylating agents, mTOR inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors,
histone    deacetylase inhibitors,   antimetabolites,  anticancer antibiotics, antitumor
platinum coordination complexes, mitotic inhibitors, topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitors,
nitrogen mustard alkylating agents, nitrosourea alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists,

                                            86
androgen antagonists, and other agents selected from aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and
PM001 04 are provided as separate medicaments for administration at the same time or
at different times.
5.       The method according to claim 4, wherein PM01183, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and the other anticancer drug selected from proteasome
inhibitors, nonclassical alkylating agents, mTOR inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors,
histone    deacetylase inhibitors,   antimetabolites,  anticancer antibiotics, antitumor
platinum coordination complexes, mitotic inhibitors, topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitors,
nitrogen mustard alkylating agents, nitrosourea alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists,
androgen antagonists, and other agents selected from aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and
PM00104 are provided as separate medicaments for administration at different times.
6.      A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is a
proteasome inhibitor.
7.      A method according to claim 6, wherein the proteasome inhibitor is selected
from bortezomib, disulfiram, epigallocatechin gallate, and salinosporamide A.
8.      A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is a
nonclassical alkylating agent.
9.      A method according to claim 8, wherein the nonclassical alkylating agent is
selected from procarbazine, dacarbazine, temozolomide and altretamine.
10.     A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an mTOR
inhibitor.
11.     A method according to claim 10, wherein the mTOR inhibitor is selected from
sirolimus, temsirolimus, everolimus, ridaforolimus, KU-0063794 and WYE-354.
12.     A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is a tyrosine
kinase inhibitor.

                                            87
13.      A method according to claim 12, wherein the tyrosine kinase inhibitor is
selected from erlotinib, sorafenib, axitinib, bosutinib, cediranib, crizotinib, dasatinib,
gefitinib, imatinib, canertinib, lapatinib, lestaurtinib, neratinib, nilotinib, semaxanib,
sunitinib, vatalanib and vandetanib.
14.      A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is a histone
deacetylase inhibitor.
15.      A method according to claim 14, wherein the histone deacetylase inhibitor is
selected from romidepsin, panobinostat, vorinostat, mocetinostat, belinostat, entinostat,
resminostat, PCI-24781, AR-42, CUDC-101 and valproic acid.
16.      A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an
antimetabolite.
17.      A method according to claim 16, wherein the antimetabolite is selected from 5
fluorouracil, gemcitabine, cytarabine, capecitabine, decitabine, floxuridine, fludarabine,
aminopterin,     methotrexate,    pemetrexed,      raltitrexed,  cladribine,    clofarabine,
mercaptopurine, pentostatin, and thioguanine.
18.      A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an
anticancer antibiotic.
19.      A method according to claim 18, wherein the anticancer antibiotic is selected
from    daunorubicin, doxorubicin,   epirubicin,  idarubicin,   mitoxantrone,    pixantrone,
valrubicin, mitomycin C, bleomycin, actinomycin A and mithramycin.
20.      A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an antitumor
platinum coordination complex.

                                                88
21.     A method according to claim 20, wherein the antitumor platinum coordination
complex is selected from cisplatin, oxaliplatin, carboplatin, triplatin tetranitrate,
satraplatin, tetraplatin, ormiplatin, iproplatin, nedaplatin and lobaplatin.
22.     A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is a mitotic
inhibitor.
23.     A method according to claim 22, wherein the mitotic inhibitor is selected from
paclitaxel, docetaxel, vinblastine, vincristine, vindesine, and vinorelbine.
24.     A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is a
topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitor.
25.     A method according to claim 24, wherein the topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitor
is selected from topotecan, SN-38, irinotecan, camptothecin, rubitecan, etoposide,
amsacrine and teniposide.
26.     A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is a nitrogen
mustard alkylating agent.
27.     A method according to claim 26, wherein the nitrogen mustard alkylating agent
is   selected     from     melphalan,     ifosfamide,    chlorambucil,    cyclophosphamide,
mechlorethamine, uramustine, estramustine and bendamustine.
28. A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug combined
with PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is a nitrosourea alkylating
agent.
29.     A method according to claim 28, wherein the nitrosourea alkylating agent is
selected from lomustine, semustine, carmustine, fotemustine and streptozotocin.
30. A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug combined
with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an estrogen
antagonist.

                                           89
31.     A method according to claim 30, wherein the estrogen antagonist is selected
from toremifene, fulvestrant, tamoxifen and nafoxidine.
32. A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug combined
with PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an androgen
antagonist.
33.     A method according to claim 32, wherein the androgen antagonist selected from
bicalutamide, flutamide, MDV3100 and nilutamide.
34.     A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the anticancer drug
combined with PM01 183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is selected
from aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104.
35.     The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the cancer to be
treated   is selected from lung cancer, sarcoma,        malignant melanoma,     bladder
carcinoma, prostate cancer, pancreas carcinoma, thyroid cancer, gastric carcinoma,
ovarian    cancer,   hepatoma,   breast  cancer,   colorectal cancer,   kidney  cancer,
esophageal cancer, neuroblastoma, brain cancer, cervical cancer, anal cancer,
testicular cancer, leukemia, multiple myeloma and lymphoma.
36.     PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in a treatment
as defined in any of claims 1 to 35.
37. The use of PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in the
manufacture of a medicament for a treatment as defined in any of claims 1-35.
38.     A kit for use in the treatment of cancer which comprises a dosage form of
PM01183, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or a dosage form of
another anticancer drug selected from proteasome inhibitors, nonclassical alkylating
agents, mTOR inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, histone deacetylase inhibitors,
antimetabolites, anticancer antibiotics, antitumor platinum coordination complexes,
mitotic inhibitors, topoisomerase I and/or II inhibitors, nitrogen mustard alkylating
agents, nitrosourea alkylating agents, estrogen antagonists, androgen antagonists, and
other agents selected from aplidine, ET-743, PM02734 and PM00104, and instructions
for the use of both drugs in combination as described in any of claims 1 to 35.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
