ABSTRACT
The invention is a roof overflow principally for use in allowing water to be removed from
roofs. The roof overflow has an overflow outlet comprising a barrier having a height in use.
The barrier is positionable in the mouth of a water outlet so that in use water will be
restricted in flowing through the outlet until the depth of water exceeds the height of the
barrier. The roof overflow further includes a first strainer in the form of a domed grill or
grid and a second strainer in the form of a series of spaced apart fingers. The fingers are
positioned around but spaced outwardly of the domed grill or grid. The barrier is
positionable within the domed grill or grid.

                            15            17  is
    2 -4+             24 17            24
  10                10                 12      28
3 11      16 28   3 11             34
                                             f-30
     7       30        7              78
                                       2
        2
                                        66
           Fig. 3           Fig. 4            Fig. 5

   A ROOF OVERFLOW
   Field of the Invention
 5
   The invention relates to an overflow outlet for use principally but not necessarily
   solely for use in allowing water to be removed from roofs.
10 Background of Invention
   Existing outlets designed to allow water to run from a roof are disadvantageous in
   that debris on the roof frequently enters the outlet which reduces, and may even
15 prevent, water flow through the outlet from the roof.
   Prior References:
   All references, including any patents or patent applications cited in this specification
   are hereby incorporated by reference. No admission is made that any reference
20 constitutes prior art. The discussion of the references states what their authors assert,
   and the applicants reserve the right to challenge the accuracy and pertinence of the
   cited documents. It will be clearly understood that, although a number of prior art
   publications may be referred to herein; this reference does not constitute an
   admission that any of these documents form part of the common general knowledge
25 in the art, in New Zealand or in any other country.
   Definitions:
30 It is acknowledged that the term 'comprise' may, under varying jurisdictions, be
   attributed with either an exclusive or an inclusive meaning. For the purpose of this
   specification. and unless otherwise noted. the term 'comprise' shall have an inclusive
   meaning - i.e. that it will be taken to mean an inclusion of not only the listed
   components it directly references, but also other non-specified components or
35 elements. This rationale will also be used when the term 'comprised' or 'comprising'
   is used in relation to one or more steps in a method or process.

   Object of the Invention
   It is an object of the invention to provide an outlet filter and/or an overflow
   that ameliorates some of the disadvantages and limitations of the known art or
   which will at least provide the public with a useful choice.
 J Summary of Invention
   Accordingly, the invention consists in an overflow comprising a barrier having a
   height in use, the barrier being positionable in the mouth of a water outlet so that in
   use water will be restricted in flowing through the outlet until the depth of water
 5 exceeds the height of the barrier, and further including a first strainer in the form of a
   domed grill or grid and a second strainer in the form of a series of spaced apart
   fingers, said fingers being positioned around but spaced outwardly of said domed
   grill or grid, and the barrier being positioned within the domed grill or grid.
 0 Preferably the barrier comprises a conduit positionable at least partly within an
   outlet filter,
   Preferably the second strainer is spaced outwardly of the first strainer.
   Preferably the water outlet further includes a base ring, the barrier being positioned.
 5 in use., on the base ring.
   Preferably the base ring has a groove or rebate to receive an edge of the barrier.
   Preferably the base ring is able to be connected the water outlet about the mouth
so thereof.
   Brief Description
   The invention will now be described, by way of example only. by reference to the
   accompanying drawings:
35
   Figure 1 is a filter and an overflow in accordance with a first preferred embodiment
   of the invention but with the water flow barrier not shown.

   Figure 2 is a plan view of the filter and overflow shown in fig I but with the water
   flow barrier in position,
    Figure 3 is across section on "A-A" in figure 2,
    Figure 4 is a cross section on "A-A" in figure 2 with the water barrier removed,
   Figure 5 is a cross-section on "B-B" in figure 2,
   Figure 6 is a detail at 'D" in figure 2,
   Figure 7 is a side elevation of the embodiment of figure 1with the water barrier in place,
   Figure 8 is a detail at "C" in figure 7, and
   Figure 9 is a detail at "E"in figure 1.
   Description of the Preferred Embodiment(s):
   The following description will describe the invention in relation to preferred embodiments of
   the invention, namely a roof overflow. The invention is in no way limited to these
   preferred embodiments as they are purely to exemplify the invention only and that
   possible variations and modifications would be readily apparent without departing
   from the scope of the invention.
   Figure 1 shows a filter and an overflow particularly for use as an outlet for water from
  a roof. The construction comprises an outlet pipe I which is positionable in an aperture
  (not shown) in a roof. The pipe 1 expands into a bowl 2 and the aperture is recessed to
  receive the outlet pipe I and bowl 2. The bowl 2 has a flange 3 thereabout, which
  flange 3 has means to attach the bowl 2 and pipe I to the roof such as countersunk apertures
  4 to receive fixing screws.
5
  The flange 3 in use in the preferred use is placed on a roof with the bowl 2 sitting a
  pre- formed aperture in the roof so that the outlet pipe 1extends inwardly into the roof
  cavity and is connected to suitable drain pipes. A water proof membrane such as a
  butynol sheet (not shown) having an aperture to receive the bowl 2 extends over the
0 flange 3 and some distance into the bowl 2. The bowl 2 has a number of fixing points
  such as threaded apertures 5 which can receive a fixing screws or bolts 6 (see fig 5) to
  hold the waterproof membrane in place.
  A fixing ring 7 (see figures 2 and 3) is provided which has a peripheral rib 8 from which
5 extends a number of fingers 10. The fingers II have a slot 11 in the inwardly facing face

  thereof. In the embodiment described there are three fingers 11 but two or more (but
  preferably three or more) may be provided. The fixing ring also has apertures 12(see
  fig 5), which are also desirably countersunk, through which the fixing screws or bolts 6
  pass to clamp the waterproof material between the fixing ring 7 and the bowl 2.
  A first strainer is provided which in the embodiment described takes the form of a
  domed grill or grid 15 which provides apertures for water flow but strains material
  such as leaves, substantially preventing such debris from entering the outlet pipe I
  and reducing the risk of clogging of the outlet pipe 1.
  The domed grid or grill 15 has a peripheral ring 16 which is positionable in the
  ring 7. The domed grid or grill 15 may be formed by members 17 extending
  outwardly from the peripheral ring 16 and which are turned mutually inwardly to
  engage a ring 18a. Further rings 18b and 18c within and concentric with ring 18a are
  provided and the rings18a, 18b, and 18c are interconnected by radial members
   19a,19b, and 19c which run from the central pint of the domed grid or grill 15 to the
  ring 18a, from ring 18a to ring 18b, and from ring 18b to ring 18c respectively.
  Means are provided to enable the domed grid or grill 15 to be engaged with the
  fixing ring. In the embodiment described the fixing means take the form of
  members 20 mounted to the ring 16 but extending outwardly therefrom and a little
  above the general plane of the ring 16. The members 20 are of a size such that
  each enters a slot 11 thereby resisting upward pressure on the domed grid or grill
   15. The outer face of the member 20 and/or the inner face of the slot II are shaped
5 such that as the member 20 enters the slot l Ithe member 20 is firmly held in the
  slot 11 preferably when substantially the mid-point of the length of the member 20
  is positioned at about the mid-point of the slot 11 in the circumferential direction
  of the rings 7 and 16. This can be achieved by making the member 20 in the
  form of a truncated wedge so that the narrower end of member 20 enters the slot
0  11 and as the ring 16 is rotated relative to the members 10 and the member 20
  eventually is a squeeze fit into the slot 11 thereby tending to resist removal of
  the member 20 from the slot 11. Thus the domed grid or grill 15 can be held to
  the ring 7, which is held to the bowl 2 by screws or bolts 6, by placing the domed
  grid or grill 15 against the ring 7 and rotating the domed grid or grill. A marking

  22 may be provided to indicate the correct direction of rotation.
  The second strainer includes a plurality of fingers 24 extending from bridges 25
  which extend outwardly from the ring 16. The fingers 24 may be spaced
  substantially equally but gaps are left into which the fingers 10 are positioned so
  that the fingers 10 and 24 provided together a substantially equally spaced set of
  fingers around the domed grid or grill 15 to provide the second strainer. The
  outward length of the fingers 10 and 24 may be substantially shorter than the height
  of the domed grid or grill 15.
  A barrier is provided to take away water which rises above the level of the roof to
  provide an overflow capability. In the preferred form the barrier takes the form of
  a conduit 28 which is positionable on a rebated ledge 30 provided on the inner
  edge of the ring 7. The conduit 28 is of a length such that it fits within the domed
  grid or grill 15 as can be seen in figures 3 and 5 for example. The diameter of
  the conduit 28 is such that the conduit 28 substantially fills the space within the
  domed grid or grill 15 and is larger than the diameter of the aperture formed by
  ring 7.
> In use the outlet pipe I and bowl 2 are positioned within an aperture in a roof and
  the waterproof membrane fixed as described above.
  With the domed grid or grill 15 in place and locked to the fixing ring 7 as above
  described the construction will act to remove water from the roof to waste through
5 the outlet pipe I and the drain pipes to which the outlet pipe 1 is attached.
   If it is desired that the construction act as a secondary over flow outlet then the
   barrier such as conduit 28 is placed on the ledge 30 and the domed grid or grill 15
  placed there over. In use should the water level rise due, for example, to the
  primary water removal system malfunctioning, for example due to blocking or
0  clogging, the overflow system with the conduit 28 in place will allow drainage of
  the water from the roof when the water level reaches the level of the top of the
   conduit 28.
  The first and second filters will act to remove at least some of material which

could clog or block the outlet for water.
Advantages
A roof overflow is provided which will provide a backup means of shedding water
from a roof in the event of failure of a primary water shedding system.
Variations
It will of course be realised that while the foregoing has been given by way of
illustrative example of this invention, all such and other modifications and
variations thereto as would be apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to
fall within the broad scope and ambit of this invention as is hereinbefore
described.

What I Claim is:
  1. An overflow comprising a barrier having a height in use, the barrier being
      positionable in the mouth of a water outlet so that in use water will be restricted in
      flowing through the outlet until the depth of water exceeds the height of the barrier,
      and further including a first strainer in the form of a domed grill or grid and a
      second strainer in the form of a series of spaced apart fingers, said fingers being
      positioned around but spaced outwardly of said downed grill or grid, and the
      barrier being positioned within the domed grill or grid.
 2. An overflow as claimed in claim I wherein the barrier comprises a conduit
     positionable at least partly within an outlet filter.
 3. An overflow as claimed in either one of claims 1 and 2 wherein the second strainer
     is spaced outwardly of the first strainer.
 4. An overflow as claimed in claim 5 wherein the water outlet further includes a base
     ring, the barrier being positioned, in use, on the base ring.
 5. An overflow as claimed in claim 4 wherein the base ring has a groove or rebate to
     receive an edge of the barrier.
 6. An overflow as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the base ring is able to
     be connected the water outlet about the mouth thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
