                                   ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to chewing gum having a coating effect and
optionally containing a filling in the form of particulate matter. The invention
also relates to methods of obtaining said chewing gum.

                    CHEWING GUM
                    The present invention relates to chewing gum with a satin coating and with
            a particulate filling.
                    Prior art
                    Chewing gum drag6e comprise a gum region, with gum base and sweetener
     5      and a coating region. The coating region manufactured according to the known
           techniques, is usually obtained through repetition of a plurality of coating steps and
           the outermost surface is usually polished. Example of polished drag6e are sold
           under the names of Mentos Pure Fresh@ chewing gum, or Orbit @.
                   In order to have a polished, smooth and glossy outermost surface, the
   10     technician may prepare a smooth coating surface employing particular coating
          syrups (more diluted or with less binders) in the last coating steps, avoid the use of
          powders, manipulate process parameters and perform a polishing step
                                                                                     employing,
          in the outermost layer, polishing agents like carnauba wax, shellac, hydrogenated
         polydecene and others. Polishing agents, in form of powders or liquid are applied
  15     in revolving pans over a bed of coated dragde and, through the friction generated
         by the tumbling drag6e, they are distributed in a thin and glossy film. In order to
        do so pans are left revolving for long periods, up to 30 minutes.
                 Drag6e chewing gums covered with particulate matter are also known, as
        disclosed for example, in US 8124145, WO 2009138208 and WO 2011158123.
 20     However, no specific teachings exist regarding quantitative control of the
        roughness of the finished product.
                 Roughness can be measured quantitatively with profilometers, however this
       technique, to the best of our knowledge, has never been used in the field of
       confectionery.
25              Chewing gum covered with particulate matter may have a peculiar appeal
       and the outermost particulate may anticipate a particulate filling. Chewing
                                                                                         gums,

                                                     2
          possibly also in the drag form, which contain fillings in the form of particulate
          matter are disclosed, for example, in EP 0320580 and EP 1151672. However, the
          Applicant has found that problems of total or partial loss of powdered filling
          during the manufacturing steps still exist. Said losses can originate in the areas of
    5     weakness, or from small holes, in the gum region that surrounds the filling, leading
         to evident disadvantages during manufacture, as well as reducing the acceptability
         of the product to consumers. Lost particles from the filling, for example, can stick
         to the outermost part of the chewing gum, comprising the outermost part of a
         drag6e, altering the roughness or smoothness of the coating.
  10            The Applicant has now found chewing gums which are qualitatively
         superior to those of the prior art, with controlled roughness with a satin effect and
        lower losses of particulate filling.
                Description of the invention
                The chewing gum of the invention comprises at least two regions, the first
 15     one is characterised by the presence of a gum base and at least one sweetener, the
        second one is a coating region comprising more than 50% of sugar or polyols and
        combinations thereof, wherein the outermost part is has a satin effect and is
       characterised by a controlled surface roughness with an average roughness Ra
       ranging between 1 and 6 pm.
20              In one embodiment, a further region consists of a granular filling, contained
       inside the gum region, wherein said granular filling is characterized by a
      particulate material in a quantity higher than 98% and a liquid in quantity
      comprised between 0.1% and 2% by weight of the filling. "Liquid ingredients"
      here means substances liquid at room temperature which are added to the granular
25    filling. Liquids contained as residues in the granular part, such as crystallisation
      water or other liquids trapped in the solid matrix of particulate matter, are therefore
      excluded.
               "Granular filling" means a filling consisting of small solid particles not

                                                     3
           bound together. For example, a granular filling can consist mainly of sugar crystals
           of various particle sizes. Alternatively, it can mainly consist of more or less
          complex granulates. Granular filling can consist of a plurality of ingredients in the
          form of particulate matter, such as sugars, polyalcohols, flavours, process
     5    adjuvants and additives.
                  The presence of percentages of liquid ingredients, as specified above, in a
          particulate filling does not modify its appearance as a set of particles, and allows
          some characteristics, such as flowability, to be qualitatively maintained, albeit in a
         quantitatively modified form.
   10            The coating region consists of a coating performed according to known
         techniques, whose outermost part has a satin effect, and is characterised by average
         roughness Ra ranging between 1 and 6 ytm and/or average roughness Rz ranging
         between 5 and 30 pm.
                 "Satin effect" means a surface roughness (for simplicity only roughness
  15     from here onward) greater than that of the prior art polished chewing gum dragees,
         but smaller than that of the drag6e of the prior art, with a coating whose outermost
        part is obtained with particulate matter.
                A preferred embodiment of the invention is a chewing gum comprising a
        first region consisting of granular filling, a second region with gum base and at
 20     least one sweetener surrounding the filling region, and a third coating region
        surrounding the second region, the outermost part of which has a satin effect.
                Advantages of the preferred embodiment are a controlled roughness of the
       outermost surface and the absence of powders derived by losses of the filling
                The invention also relates to a process for the preparation of said chewing
25     gums. The method comprises the preparation of a gum dough by adding in a mixer
       and mixing at least one gum base and a sweetener according to known methods.
                When the gum dough has been obtained, it is reduced to a plurality of
       chewing gum pieces, such as sticks or slabs, or a plurality of cores, by one or more

                                                     4
          of the following processes: extrusion, dye forming, cutting, rolling and scoring.
                  In one embodiment, a substance in the form of granules having the function
          of filling the chewing gum pieces or cores is introduced into the mixture at the
          same time as or after extrusion and before the dye forming, cutting, rolling and
    5     scoring steps. The granular filling preferably comprises solids with a negative heat
          of solution, in particular polyalcohols.
                  The method for manufacturing the chewing gum of the invention comprises
         the application of a coating, omitting the polishing step as described.
                 Many types of coating are possible, but for the scope of the invention,
  10     coating means one or more layers of hard coating, soft coating and combinations
        thereof. Coating can be based on sugar or on polyols, alone or in combination
        thereof.
                 Coating can be performed in pans and can comprise the application of
       powders, application of one or more layers of engrossing and smoothing syrup.
 15              According to the invention, a finishing with controlled roughness with a
       satin effect is obtained by means of a controlled process characterised by the
       absence of a polishing step and preferably employing only one type of syrup, thus
       simplifying the coating operations. The invention is thus advantageous since no
       polishing step is required and only one type of syrup has to be prepared, with
20     consequent savings in time and costs of raw materials..
                The chewing gum with a satin finish of the invention may be prepared by a
      process, wherein dry semi-fmished drag6es, coated from 50% to 99% of the
      coating weight, are subjected to a final coating step comprising
               i) coating with syrup;
25             ii) dusting with a coating material in powder comprising polyols;
               iii) drying with air;
               until 100% of the coating weight is obtained with an outermost satin
      coating.

                                                      5
                  Preferably the steps i)-iii) are repeated less than four times. The powder
         according to the invention providing the satin effect either consists of a single
         material or comprises a combination different materials, preferably two different
         materials.
    5            The satin coating of the outermost part can be obtained, independently of
        the presence of granular filling, by the method according to the invention, over
        chewing gum cores according to the prior art, including cores with liquid filling.
                 In the filling, core and coating regions, other ingredients, such as additives,
        flavours, cooling agents, vitamins, minerals and herbal extracts can be added.
  10            Detailed description of the invention
                The chewing gum of the invention can be made in any shape, such as sticks,
        slabs, cigarettes, and cushion, rectangular, cube and disc shapes.
                The chewing gum of the invention comprises two regions:
                a) a gum region characterised by the presence of at least one gum base and
 15    at least one sweetener;
               b) a coating region comprising more than 50% of sugar or polyols and
       combination thereof, wherein the outermost part is has controlled roughness with a
       satin effect and is characterised by an average roughness Ra ranging between 1 and
       6 gm.
20             In a further embodiment the gum can comprise a region consisting of a
       granular filling, included in the chewing gum region, wherein said granular filling
      is characterized by a particulate material in a quantity higher than 98% and a liquid
      in quantity comprised between 0.1% and 2% by weight of the filling. The first two
      steps of the preparation process involves preparing the region with gum base and at
25    least one sweetener. The first step a) is to obtain a chewing gum dough with
      known techniques from at least a gum base and a sweetener, from which the cores
      of the chewing gum in drag6e form will be obtained in the second step b)
              The gum base can be manufactured according to known techniques.

                                                     6
                 The sweetener can be selected from sugars (in solid form, such as sucrose and
         glucose, or in the form of syrup, such as glucose syrup), polyols (in solid form, such
         as sorbitol, or in the form of syrup, such as maltitol syrup), and combinations
         thereof. The polyols can be selected from sorbitol, mannitol, maltitol, isomalt (a
    5    mixture of glucopyranosyl mannitol and glucopyranosyl sorbitol), erythritol, xylitol,
         maltitol syrup and mixtures thereof. Various particle size grades are available for
         each of the ingredients listed, which can be used mixed together, to modulate the
         hardness, flavour and texture sensation of the chewing gum composition.
                The mixture may also contain one or more of the following substances:
 10     intensive sweeteners, flavouring agents in solid or liquid form, wetting agents,
        technological adjuvants such as emulsifiers or plasticisers, active pharmacological
        ingredients, plant extracts, functional ingredients such as vitamins or mineral salts,
        and colorants.
               The gum dough can be prepared according to any known methodology, for
 15     example with the use of continuous extruders or non-continuous mixing
       apparatuses.
               After the dough has been prepared, it is processed to obtain a plurality of
       pieces of chewing gum or cores, e.g. by extrusion and following dye forming or
       rolling and scoring..
20             The manufacturing process can also include a step of introduction into the
       extruded dough of a substance designed to fill the body of the chewing gum, said
      introduction step being performed after or at the same time as the extrusion step,
      and before the rolling or dye forming step. The filling can be liquid, solid, granular
      or gelatinous. Certain embodiments of the invention require the gum to contain a
25    quantity of filling completely surrounded by the chewing gum region. Liquid or
      granular filling exits rapidly from the gum during the first steps of chewing,
      contributing to the initial sensation imparted by the chewing gum.
              Moreover, in the case of the preferred granular or powdered fillings, the use

                                                   7
         of ingredients with a negative heat of solution, such as dextrose, dextrose
        monohydrate, sorbitol, erythritol and xylitol, and mixtures thereof, contributes to
        the initial sensation of coolness.
                The granular filling preferably comprises particulate matter with at least one
   5    of the following: dextrose monohydrate, sorbitol, erythritol and xylitol and
        mixtures thereof in crystals, in a quantity exceeding 98% of the filling. The filling
        contains added liquid ingredients in a percentage between 0.1% and 2% by weight
        of the filling. The average particle size of the particulate matter preferably ranges
       between 40     sm and  1000 ptm, even more preferably between 250 pim and 800 im;
 10    The filling preferably also contains powdered flavours such as menthol and
       cooling agents, either "as is" or supported or encapsulated.
               The particulate filling can contain other ingredients in solid form such as
       additives, including organic acids, colorants, including lakes and pigments, and
       process adjuvants, such as starches, modified starches, silica, talc and magnesium
 15    stearate.
              The granular filling advantageously contains ingredients which are liquid at
      room temperature, in addition to any residues naturally contained in the filling
      ingredients. In particular, liquid ingredients with a concentration higher than 0.1%
      and lower than 1 wt% of the filling are preferably used, including concentrations
20    lower than 0.8 wt%, 0.6 wt%, 0.4 wt% and 0.2 wt% of the filling.
              The liquid ingredients can include triglycerides (chain C6-C12).. Said liquid
     ingredients      are preferably constituted by C-C12 chain triglycerides. The
     triglycerides are preferably contained in a percentage lower than 1%, including
     percentages lower than 0.8%, 0.6%, 0.4% and 0.2% by weight of the filling.
25   Liquid hydrophilic ingredients, such as syrups or aqueous suspensions at various
     concentrations, contained in the powdered filling in percentages below 0.5%,
     including concentrations lower than 0.3, 0.1 and 0.05% by weight of the powdered
     filling, can optionally be present. Hydrophilic liquid ingredients and triglycerides

                                                     8
          combined with the described percentages can be present simultaneously.
                   The liquid ingredients therefore preferably constitutes a percentage of the
          filling ranging between 2% and 0.01%, more preferably between 1% and 0.1% and
          even more preferably between 0.8% and 0.2%.
     5            The filling in the form of particulate matter preferably comprises xylitol
          crystals with an average particle size ranging between 250 pm and 1000 pm, in a
         percentage exceeding 50% by weight of the filling.
                  The insertion in the granular filling of small percentages of liquid
         ingredients as described, including triglycerides and hydrophilic liquids, produces
  10     a filling with lower losses of filling in the subsequent steps, comprising coating
         and/or wrapping. In fact some of the particles of the granular filling can leak from
        the filling region, through defects in the gum region, like the small holes that can
        be present in the closing areas of moulded chewing gum centres, and cause quality
        problems. In fact the granules leaked from the filling can spoil the appearance of
  15    the coated drag6e, by sticking to the outermost part of the coating, damaging the
        controlled roughness, characterizing the present invention. Leaked granules may
        eventually and in part soil the internal part of the packaging, in which gum are
        usually sold, further damaging the quality of the product.
                 The cores thus obtained are sent to the subsequent manufacturing steps.
 20     Coated gums require the application of hard or soft coatings, as described below.
                Some embodiments do not include the presence of granular filling. If the
       consistency of the filling is sufficient, the filling need not be completely
       surrounded by the chewing gum region, but may be visible on one or more sides.
                The chewing gum of the invention includes a coating, that constitutes the
25     coating region. Different forms of coating are possible, the most common being
       soft coating and hard coating, which can be applied alone or combined with one
       another.
                Soft coating is obtained by applying syrup to the chewing gum cores,

                                                     9
          followed in sequence by powders or granulates (dusting). The syrup is formed by
         mono- or disaccharides, possibly hydrogenates, dissolved in water to which
         polysaccharides such as glucose syrups, or binders such as gum arabic or gelatin,
         can be added. The powders or granulates can have the same nature as one of the
    5    ingredients of the syrup or different ones. For example, if the syrup contains
         sucrose dissolved in water and gum arabic, sucrose crystals can be used as
         particulate matter. However, the particulate matter can also consist of more
         complex materials, such a mix of sugar and gum arabic. The sequence is repeated
        on one or more times, typically up to 7-10 times. The result is a soft crust, where
  10    water is immobilized through distribution over the large surface of the applied
        powders.
                A hard coating is obtained by applying in sequence syrup, powder (optional)
        and drying air. Times, called distribution times, during which the syrup or powder is
        evenly distributed over the surface of the balls, can be inserted between applications.
 15     In this case, water is removed by drying air, which concentrates the syrup that
       crystallise in due times. The sequence is repeated on one or more times, even over
       20 times. The result, after an optional curing time, is a crunchy crust.
               In the context of the invention, the final part of the soft coating or hard
       coating, is performed taking measures directed to have a surface which is as
20     smooth as possible, before the process steps directed toward the finishing of the
       coating with an outermost part with controlled roughness.
               Those skilled in the art know how to have a smooth final part of the coating,
      because this is customarily required to prepare the coating for the common
      polishing step, which constitutes the outermost part of the coating in the vast
25    majority of chewing gum dragee on the market. The skilled technician knows how
      to control syrup viscosity and concentration (which is usually lowered) and may
      avoid or reduce dusting in the final syrup application in order to smooth the
      coating. Process parameters can be also set to help the technician in this direction,

                                                    10
         like modifying rotation frequency in pans, lowering air temperature (if used),
         introducing longer distribution times.
                 Additives and ingredients usually directed to impart a glossy appearance to
        the outermost part of the coating are preferably absent. These additives and
    5   ingredients are usually: natural waxes, synthetic waxes, shellac, alone or in
        combination with solvents and additives, like oils, alcohol, emulsifiers. Waxes
        preferably absent from the present invention are: carnauba wax, candelilla,
        beeswax, petroleum wax, microcrystalline wax, hydrogenated poly- 1-decene.
                Alternatively, if these polishing agents are present, they are not used to
  10    polish the surface. The applicant has found that polishing agents can be used as
        slip agents for the coated drag6e, if they are used in a mix with other powders.
        Preferably, the finished drag6e are not revolved after drying, to avoid smoothening
       the satin finished surface and the polishing agents, if present, to be spread in a
       glossy film. Flavours, intensive sweeteners, liquid or powdered colorants,
 15    optionally encapsulated or supported, either alone or mixed together, can be used
       in both types of coating.
               Moreover, part of the coating can be obtained by one technique and part by
       another, thus generating infinite permutations of textures, colours, flavours, etc..
               The coating region of the invention includes a satin finishing on the
20     outermost part.
               Said effect may be obtained by a process, wherein dry semi-finished drag6es,
      coated from 50% to 99% of the coating weight, are subjected to a final coating step
      comprising
              i) coating with syrup;
25            ii) dusting with a coating material in powder comprising polyols;
              iii) drying with air;
              until 100% of the coating weight is obtained with an outermost satin
      coating.

                                                       11
                   Preferably the steps i)-iii) are repeated less than four times, more preferably
           less than three times, most preferably two times.
                  Distribution times may be inserted after the coating with syrup or the dusting
          with the powder comprising polyols. A polishing step is not performed. The powder
    5     used for the outermost satin coating can be the same as the powders possibly used in
          other parts of the process or a different one. The powder used for the outermost satin
          coating preferably comprises and more preferably consists of one of sorbitol,
         isomalt, maltitol, xylitol, mannitol, erythritol, gum arabic and combinations
         thereof.
  10              The powder can consist of the same material that constitutes the majority of
         the coating, or a different material. For example, if the main ingredient of the
        coating is isomalt, powdered isomalt can be used independently                    of the
        glucopyranosylsorbitol:glucopyranosylmannitol          (GPS:GPM) ratio. If the major
        ingredient of the coating is xylitol, the powder can consist of a mixture of mannitol
 15     and gum arabic. Alternatively, if the major ingredient of the coating is maltitol, a
        powdered mixture of maltitol and gum arabic can be used.
                 Alternatively, the powder used for the outermost satin coating preferably
       consists of more powders combined among themselves, preferably two or three
       powders. Preferably a first powder consists of sorbitol, isomalt, maltitol, xylitol,
20     mannitol, erythritol, gum arabic and combinations thereof. Preferably a second
       powder consists of talc, silicon dioxide, titanium dioxide, magnesium stearate,
       carnauba wax. Preferably a third powder consists of coloured speckles (also known
       as edible glitters). Glitter, also known as speckles, are available in different colours
      and particle sizes, and can be obtained, for example, from Watson Foods Company
25    Inc., 301 Heffernan Dr., West Haven, USA.
                The first powder preferably accounts for 50% to 97%, more preferably 65%
      to 90% of the powder used in the outermost satin coating. The second powder
      preferably accounts for 0.1% to 10%, more preferably 4% to 9% of the powder

                                                   12
         used in the outermost satin coating.
                Preferably the ratio between the dry coating syrup and the material in
         powder form used in the satin coating is from 2:1 to 4:1, more preferably from
         2.5:1 to 3.5:1. The syrup used in the satin coating is preferably composed by
    5   polyols from 60% to 90%, binders from 3% to 9%, water from 10% to 20%
        (percentages on the wet syrup). Colours, sweeteners and flavours may be present
        as needed.
               More preferably the syrup used in the satin coating is composed by polyols
        from 70% to 80%, binders from 5% to 8%, water from 12% to 17% (percentages
 10     on the wet syrup).
               Preferred polyols are xylitol, isomalt, maltitol, mannitol sorbitol and
        mixtures thereof. A preferred mixture is 3:1 to 5:1 xylitol : mannitol.
               Preferred   binders   are  gum    arabic,  starches    (native   or modified),
       maltodextrins, gelatin.
 15            The satin coating is applied over a semi-finished drag6e, i.e. a dragee which
       is not yet completed, but that already has part or even most of the coating. In fact it
       is preferred that the semi-finished drag6e already has from 50% to 99% of the final
       coating (% by weight of the coating), more preferably from 70% to 99%, even
       more preferably from 85% to 95% of the final coating. The satin finishing
20     completes the coating to 100%, thus accounting for 1% to 50% of the coating,
      more preferably from 1% to 30%, even more preferably from 5% to 15% of the
      coating (% by weight of the coating).
              In percentages of the fished product the final satin coating may account
      for 0.1% to 10%, preferably 0.5% to 5% , more preferably 1% to 4% by weight.
25            "Satin effect" means a low level of roughness, characterised by an average
      roughness Ra ranging between 1 and 6 pm and/or a roughness Rz ranging between
      5 and 30 gm.
              The applicant has found that the measure of roughness is reduced in respect

                                                    13
         to the measure of size of the powder, this can be attributed only to the process as
         described. In order to control the roughness of the finished piece to the desired
         values the Applicant has proposed to use powders which are accordingly of higher
         size than the target roughness.
    5           In fact the powder, used in the process described for the manufacture of the
         satin finishing on the outermost part of the coating, preferably has an average
        particle size by weight ranging between 10 pm and 500 gm, more preferably
        between 30 Im and 400 gm, and even more preferably between 40 Pum and 300
        pm.
  10            The process thus reduces the irregularity that the powder would provide, if
        applied unchanged to a surface, yielding a surface with controlled roughness.
                Ra can be measured with known roughness testers or profilometers which are
       available, for example, from Taylor Hobson Ltd, PO Box 36, 2 New Star Road,
       Leicester, LE4 9JQ (UK). In roughness testers, a very fine tip probes a surface,
 15    without damaging it, along a line. Other instruments do not use mechanical probes,
       but beams of light, such as a laser. From the surface profile detected by the probe,
       different indexes of surface roughness can be calculated, Ra and Rz being among the
       most common.
               The median profile line, which minimises the sum of the squared distances
20     of the profile points from the median line, is used as reference to measure Ra. The
      profile is probed and measured along a length L, conventionally established in
      proportion to the estimated roughness. Taking the median line as the x-axis, Ra is
      defined as the absolute mean of the values of the profile on a y-axis always
      orthogonal to x. If a series n of discrete points (xi ; yi) on the profile is sampled, Ra
25    can be calculated with the equation:
                             n
               Ra= (1/n)Z     lyil
                              i=1

                                                      14
                   To measure Rz, reference is made to the five highest peaks along a profile
          L, with axes yi, y2, y3, y4, y5, and to the five lowest valleys, with axes yi', y2', Y3',
          y4', ys'. Rz is therefore defined by the formula
                            5      5
    5              Rz=(Eyi-Iyi')/5
                           i=1     i'=1
                  The y-axes are always measured by reference to the median line, so the yi,
         values, relating to the valleys have a negative value, and if their sum is subtracted,
         the result is a positive value.
  10             As Rx is a mean calculated on the maximum values , for the same profile
        Rz>Ra, the difference between Ra and Rz typically conveys the irregularity of the
        roughness.
                 The roughness measurement of an external part of a coating with a satin
        effect obtained according to the invention is an intermediate value between the
 15     roughness of a normally smoothed and polished drag6e and a drag6e with
        particulate matter in the outermost part, obtained by the conventional technique.
        The roughness according to the invention is characterised by an average roughness
       Ra ranging between 1 and 6 ptm and/or an average roughness Rz ranging between
       5 and 30 pm. The roughness of a drag6e smoothed and polished by the
20     conventional technique and available on the market is typically characterised by
       mean values of Ra<l pim and Rz<3 pm. The roughness of a drag6e with the
       outermost layer made of particulate matter obtained by the conventional technique
       and available on the market is characterised by mean values of Ra>6 gm and
      Rz>30 pm.
25              Notably, as Ra and Rz are averaged values, a higher Ra and Rz indicate
      higher irregularity in a surface. The invention displays a degree of irregularity in
      its surface that is higher than prior art polished drag6es, but lower than prior art
      particulate coating.

                                                 15
               The mean value of Ra is preferably between 2 and 5 gm, and
       simultaneously the mean value of Rz is between 10 and 25 pm. "Mean value" here
       means a repetition of the determination of Ra and Rz on a plurality of pieces of
       coated chewing gum, in particular on ten pieces.
   5          The chewing gum of the invention can contain other conventional
      ingredients in the filling region, the region with gum base and the coating region.
      In particular, further sugars, additives, technological adjuvants, flavours, cooling
      agents, vitamins, minerals and herbal extracts can be used.
              The sugars can be used in solid form, such as dextrose or sucrose, or in
 10   syrup form, such as glucose syrup.
              The additives can include polyalcohols, intensive sweeteners, acidifiers,
      filling agents, thickeners and wetting agents. The polyalcohols are available in
     solid form, such as sorbitol, xylitol, mannitol, isomalt, maltitol and erythritol, and
     liquid form, such as maltitol or sorbitol syrup in solution.
15           The following examples report chewing gum formulations consisting of a
     region with gum base and sweeteners.
             Example 1 - Region with gum base and a sweetener
                        Ingredient                                 %
                        Gum base                                  36.00
                        Acesulfame K                              0.05
                        Aspartame                                 0.05
                        Sucralose                                 0.10
                        Mannitol                                  10.00
                        Glycerol                                  3.50
                        Peppermint flavouring in solid form       1.80
                        Maltitol                                  32.00
                        Maltitol syrup                            5.00
                        Pepermint flavorings                      1.50
                        Sorbitol                                  10.00
                       Total                                      100

                                                    16
              Examples 2 - 6 - Granular Fillings
      Ingredient                                                               5
                                           2            3           4     (W02011          6
                                                                          -158123) (reference)
     Xylitol crystals,                  87.00       87.00       87.00
       average particle size 500 pm
      Sorbitol crystals,                10.45        10.00       10.2
      average particle size 200 pm
     Xylitol crystals,                                                       85.4
     average particle size 700 pm
     Xylitol crystals - s
     tandard grade - 95% between                                                          96
      177pm and 2380 gm
    Powdered menthol                    2.00
    Powdered solid flavour mix                                                            4
    Flavour                                                                  10.8
    Soium bicarbonate                                                        3.8
    Triacetin                           0.50          1          0.8
    E133 - aluminium lake               0.05
    Talc                                              2
   Citric acid                                                    2
   Total                                100         100         100         100          100
                                    Granular Granular Granular Granular             Granular
   Physical form                    particulate particulate particulate particulate particulate
                                    matter      matter      matter      matter      matter
            Examples 7 - 11 - Gum centers
            Gum dough of Example 1 is subjected to extrusion and dye forming, while a
 5 granular filling according to Examples 2-6 is inserted according to known
   techniques (EP0320580), in order to manufacture gum cores filled with powder
   filling. The table with examples 7-11 reports the percentages of gum region and
   filling region, forming the centres (percentages of the centre).
10

                                                   17
                Region                    7           8            910
                                    inventive inventive inventive (W0011- (reference)
                                                                             158123)
       Gum Region Example 1              88          88           88            87          88
     Granular filling Example 2          12
     Granular filling Example 3                      12
     Granular filling Example 4                                   12
     Granular filling Example 5                                                 13
     Granular filling Example 6                                                            12
    Physical form                  chewing gum center with granular filling
                                   No          No           No            Some       Some
    Comments                       leaking of leaking of leaking of leaking of leaking of
                                   filling     filling      filling       filling    filling
           Examples 12-14 - Coating syrups
           Prior art syrups for xylitol coating
                                 Example 12 -      Example 13           Example 14
                                 coating syrup     - coating syrup      c      201158123)
        Ingredient              %                  %                    %
        Xylitol                 60                 65                   59.5
       Mannitol                 15                 10                  0
       Water                    15                20                   29.995
       Gum Arabic               7                 3                    10.5
       E171e                    3                 2
       E133                                                            0.005
       Total                  r 100               100                  100
          The following examples of coating the % of syrups refer to the dry syrups.
5         Reference Example 15
          Centres of example 11 are placed in a pan and coated with known hard
  coating methods with repeated applications of the coating (engrossing) syrup of

                                                   18
         example 12.
                These first steps of syrup application, in hard coating, are usually called
        engrossing. In this phase more concentrated syrups are used, usually with a higher
        content of binders, than in the following steps. Coating powders are also used, but
    5   their effect is null on the outermost surface of the dragde, because they are covered
        during the following application of syrups.
                Forced air and distribution times are applied according to known techniques
       and powders are applied in-between some of the successive applications of syrup
       of example 12. Powders are applied in a relatively small percentage in the first part
 10    of the coating and in-between many successive applications of syrup, their effect is
       null on the roughness of the final coating. Flavours and sweeteners are also
       applied, mixed with the syrup.
               Immediately after the centres have been engrossed to a pre-determined
      percentage of the final weight, the smoothing syrup 13 is applied in a number of
 15   repeated applications, followed by forced air and distribution times. Finally,
      carnauba wax is employed as polishing. In the described procedure syrup quantity
      per application, times, temperatures, relative humidity of the air, revolving speed
      are set in order to obtain a smooth finish in a commercially acceptable time.
      Relative quantities are reported in the following table in % of the fished drag6e
20    (syrups % are reported as dry weight).
25

                                                 19
                                                Example 15 - (not inventive)
       Ingredient                               %               g per piece    Notes
       Gum centre Example 11                    80.0000         1.6000
       Syrup Example 12                         10.5450         0.2109
                                                                               Engrossing
       Powder                                   1.2000          0.0240         phase    (~
       Flavors and sweeteners                  0.7500          0.0150          12.5%)
       Syrup Example 13                        7.5000          0.1500          Smoothing
                                                                              and
                                                                              Polishing
       Carnauba Wax                            0.0050          0.0001         phase
                                                                              (- 7.5%)
       Total                                   100.0000        2.0000
             The outcome is a smooth, white and polished chewing gum drag6e. The
     coating texture is crunchy. after 1-2 days at R.T.
             Reference Example 16 (WO 2011/158123)
             Centres of example 11 are placed in a pan. The coating syrup of example 14
  5  is added continuously to the chewing gum centres in the rotating pan, till correct
     and consistent distribution of the syrup is achieved. The powder material, which
    accounts for most of the coating - xylitol in this example - is than added to centres
    covered with the syrup over a period of time to allow the powder to adhere to and
    be incorporated into the coating syrup. The coating is then dried with air,
10  evaporating any water from the syrup, giving a solid but soft coating on the
    chewing gum pieces.
15

                                                       20
                                                  Example 16 (non inventive - according to WO
                                                  2011/158123)
          Ingredient                              %          g per piece  Notes
         Gum centre Example 11                   70.0000     1,4000
         Syrup Example 14                        8.9400     0.1788        Single coating phase
         Flavour                                 0.0600     0.0012
         Powder 1: Xylitol CM90, Danisco         20.6400    0.4128
         Powder 2: gum arabic                    0.3600     0.0072
         Total                                   100.0000   2.0000
                 The outcome is, white-blue chewing gum drag6e with an irregular outer
        coating. The coating texture is soft and lightly crunchy.
                 Example 17
                 Centres of example I1 are placed in a pan and coated with known hard
    5   coating methods with repeated applications of the engrossing syrup of example 12.
        Forced air and distribution times are applied according to known techniques and
       powders are applied in-between some of the successive applications of syrup of
       example 12. Powders are applied in a relatively small percentage in the first part of
       the coating and in-between many successive application of syrup, their effect is
  10  null on the roughness of the final coating. Flavours and sweeteners are also
      applied, mixed with the syrup.
                Once the centres have been coated to predetermined weight, quite close to
      the final weight, accounting for 88% of the total coating (% of the coating), a final
      coating is performed, which provides a satin finish and consists of the following
 15   steps:
               i) coating with syrup;
               ii) letting a distribution time to elapse;
              iii) dusting with powder;
              iiii) letting a distribution time to elapse;
20            iiiii) drying with air;

                                                  21
              This final coating is not followed by any other coating step and is repeated 2
      times
                                                            Example 17 (invention)
       Ingredient                                        %         g per piece         Notes
       Gum centre Example 11                            70             1.4
      Syrup Example 12                                 23.5           0.47          Engrossing
                                                                                      coating
      Coating Powder                                   3.5            0.07             phase
                                                                                     (~28%)
      Flavors and sweeteners                             1            0.02
      Syrup Example 12                                 1.6           0.032         Final satin
                                                                                     coating
      Powder: 80% mannitol, 20% gum arabic             0.4           0.008            phase
                                                                                     (~-2%)
      Total                                         100.0000        2.0000
             The outcome is a white and slightly rough drag6e, with a satin apparel. The
  5  coating texture is crunchy.
            Example 18 - Measurements
            Ten chewing gum drag6e from each of the examples 15, 16 and 17 are
    subjected to the measurement of superficial roughness with a profilometer Form
    Talysurf Intra (Taylor Hobson). The Ra and Rz are calculated by the instrument
10  software. Average values over 10 different drag6e per example are reported
                       Example 15               Example 17              Example 16
                       (reference)                                      (reference)
          average      0.47                    3.34                    7.12
    Ra    s
          deviation    0.10                    0.86                    0.97
          average     3.1                      18.37                   36.5
          standard
          deviation                            3.64                    3.42

                                              22
             The roughness parameters Ra and Rz of the example 17 are intermediate
     when confronted to those of example 15 (prior art polished dragee) or example 16
     (prior art rough coating). Average values ± standard deviation are not overlapping,
     thus indicating that roughness of example 17 is clearly distinct from that of
   5 example 15 and 16.
  10
 15
20
25

       WO 2014/173924                                                     PCT/EP2014/058182
                                                  23
                 CLAIMS
        1.       A chewing gum comprising two regions:
                 a) a gum region characterised by the presence of at least one gum base and
   5    at least one sweetener;
                b) a coating region comprising more than 50% of sugar or polyols and
       combination thereof, wherein the outermost part has a satin effect and is
       characterised by an average roughness Ra ranging between I and 6 im.
       2.       A chewing gum according to claims 1 wherein the roughness is further
 10    characterised by an average roughness Rz ranging between 5 and 30 jim.
       3.       A chewing gum according to claims 1 and 2 wherein the average roughness
       Ra ranges between 2 and 5 pm and the average roughness Rz ranges between 10
       and 25 im.
      4.        A chewing gum according to claims 1-3, comprising a granular filling
 15   region, contained inside the gum region a), wherein said granular filling is
      characterized by a particulate material in a quantity higher than 98% and a liquid
      in quantity comprised between 0.1% and 2% by weight of the filling.
      5.       A chewing gum according to claim 4 wherein said particulate comprises
      dextrose monohydrate, sorbitol, erythritol, xylitol and mixtures thereof, in crystals
20   with an average particle size ranging between 40 Pm and 1000 pm.
     6.        A chewing gum according to claim 4, wherein said liquid component is
     contained in a percentage between 0.1 and 1%by weight of the filling.
     7.       A chewing gum according to claim 4 and 6, wherein said liquid component
     is constituted by C6-C chain triglycerides.
25   8.       A process for manufacturing the chewing gums of claims 1-3 wherein dry
     semi-finished drag6es, coated from 50% to 99% of the coating weight, are
     subjected to a final coating step comprising
              i) coating with syrup;

 WO 2014/173924                                                   PCT/EP2014/058182
                                          24
        ii) dusting with a coating material in powder comprising polyols;
        iii) drying with air;
        until 100% of the coating weight is obtained without any polishing step and
 with an outermost satin coating.
 9.     A process according to claim 8 wherein the powder of steps ii) is
characterised by a particle size between 30 pm and 400 pm.
 10.    A process according to claim 9 wherein said powder comprises sorbitol,
isomalt, maltitol, xylitol, mannitol, erythritol, gum arabic and combinations
thereof.
11. A process according to claims 8-10 wherein the ratio between the coating
syrup and the material in powder form employed in the satin coating is between
2:1 and 4:1.

