                                                   ABSTRACT
   A method for replacing a volume of coolant fluid in a circulating system in diesel engine system
   that includes the steps of establishing pneumatic connection with at least one location in the
 5 diesel engine coolant fluid circulating system; establishing fluid connection with at least one
   point in the diesel engine coolant fluid circulating system, the fluid connection location being
   different from the pneumatic connection; and after pneumatic and fluid connection is established,
   drawing a vacuum pressure through said pneumatic connection and introducing the volume of
   coolant fluid into the through said fluid connection as well as a device for accomplishing the
.0 same.
                                                      25

                   METHOD AND DEVICE FOR COOLANT RECYCLING
                                          BACKGROUND
[00011       The present invention is directed to a method and device for coolant recycling.
More particularly, the present invention is directed to a method and device for recycling diesel
engine coolant.
[00021       Nearly all diesel engines rely on liquid cooling systems to transfer heat out of the
block and internals of the engine. The typical diesel engine has a cooling system that consists of
a closed loop that contains major components such as a water pump, radiator or heat exchanger,
water jacket and a thermostat. The water jacket includes coolant passages in the block, heads
and the radiator.
[00031       Air pockets in the radiator and associated coolant passages can hamper and
compromise engine performance and durability. This can be evidenced in a variety of locations
but is particularly acute when associated with cylinder head liners employed in various diesel
engines. Catastrophic failure of cylinder head liners can be associated with the presence of
localized air pockets in the radiator or coolant fluid circulating system generally due to
inadequate cooling and heat transfer.
[0004]       Various engine maintenance procedures require the partial or complete draining
of the coolant fluid system. It is posited that air pockets can be introduced during the refilling
operations. These air pockets result in compromise cooling efficiency and can result in "hot
spots" that can lead to the thermal degradation of sensitive diesel engine liners located in these
cylinders.
                                             SUMMARY
[00051       Disclosed herein is a method for replacing a volume of coolant fluid in a heat
exchange system of a diesel engine. The method includes the steps of establishing pneumatic
connection with at least one location in the diesel engine coolant circulating system and
                                                    1

establishing fluid connection with at least one location in the diesel engine coolant fluid
circulating system that is different from the pneumatic connection point. After pneumatic
connection and fluid connection have been established, drawing a vacuum pressure through the
pneumatic connection and introducing a volume of coolant fluid through the fluid connection.
[00061        Also disclosed herein is a device for reciprocatingly removing and replenishing
coolant fluid in a circulating system in a diesel engine. The device includes at least one coolant
fluid recycling tank configured to be in pneumatic contact with an external source of
pressurized air. The recycling tank also includes at least one coolant conveying line that is
releaseably connectable with a suitable entry point located on the diesel engine in contact with
the engine coolant circulating system. The device also includes at least one vacuum generating
device configured to be in pneumatic contact with the recycling tank and in releaseable contact
with the coolant recirculating system of the associated diesel engine.
[0007]        Also disclosed herein is a float valve and float valve assembly that facilitates
positive removal of fluid from an associated vessel in a pressure resistant manner that prevents
overfilling and eliminates the possibility of introduction of air into the associated system.
[0008]        Also disclosed is a method for replacing a volume of coolant fluid in a circulating
system in diesel engine system comprising the steps of:
         establishing pneumatic connection between an externally located pressurizable
recycling tank and at least one location in the diesel engine coolant fluid circulating system;
         establishing fluid connection between the externally located pressurizable recycling
tank and at least one point in the diesel engine coolant fluid circulating system, the fluid
connection location being different from the pneumatic connection, wherein the volume of
coolant fluid is resident in the externally located pressurizable recycling tank;
         after pneumatic and fluid connection is established, drawing a vacuum pressure through
said pneumatic connection and introducing the volume of coolant fluid through said fluid
connection, wherein the volume of fluid is introduced from the externally located reservoir
through a float valve located in the externally located reservoir, wherein the float valve
comprises:
                 a shaft body having an exterior surface, a first end and an opposed second end,
the shaft body defining a single through shaft extending from the first end to the second end
                                                   2

defining an interior area, the shaft body having at least one bore defined therein, the bore
extending from the exterior surface to the single through shaft;
                  a float member configured to traverse the interior area of the single through
shaft, the float member having a height (H);
                  at least one seated seal positioned at a fixed location in the single through shaft
proximate to the first end of the shaft member, the seated seal configured to releasable contact
the float member; and
         at least one stop member located proximate the second end of the shaft in contact with
the shaft.
[0008a]           In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
valve device comprising:
         a shaft body having an exterior surface, a first end and an opposed second end, the shaft
body defining a through shaft extending from the first end to the second end defining an
interior, the shaft body having at least two bores defined therein and positioned coplanar to one
another in a plane parallel to a liquid level when a liquid is present in the shaft, the at least two
bores each extending from the exterior surface to the through shaft, wherein the at least two
bores each define an area;
         a float member configured to traverse the interior of the through shaft, the float member
having a height, the float member having a size greater that the area of each of the at least two
bores, the float member and the through shaft configured so as to constrain vertical movement
of the float member in the interior of the through shaft to a defined vertical path;
         at least one seated seal positioned at a fixed location in the interior of the through shaft
proximate to the first end of the shaft member, the seated seal configured to releasibly contact
the float member; and
         at least one stop member located proximate the second end of the shaft in contact with
the shaft body, the stop member having at least one vent hole defined therein and the vent hole
communicating with the through shaft, the stop member comprising a shaft plug insertably
positioned and extending a distance into the shaft body, the shaft plug defining a vent hole.
10008b]           In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
valve device according to the first aspect utilized in a method for replacing a volume of fluid in
a circulating system in an automotive system, the method comprising the steps of:

        establishing pneumatic connection with at least one pneumatic connection location in
the automotive fluid circulating system;
        establishing fluid connection with at least one fluid connection location in the
automotive fluid circulating system, the fluid connection location being different from the
pneumatic connection location, wherein the fluid connection places the circulating system of
the automotive system in fluid contact with a collection reservoir external to the automotive
system;
        after pneumatic and fluid connection is established, drawing a vacuum pressure through
said pneumatic connection and introducing the volume of fluid into said collection reservoir,
through the valve device of the first aspect.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]       In the present disclosure reference is made to the following various drawings in
which like reference numerals are used for like elements throughout the various figures. The
drawing figures are for illustrative purposes only and include the following:
[00010]      Figure 1 is a process diagram of an embodiment of the method for replacing a
volume of coolant fluid in a circulating system in a diesel engine as disclosed herein;
100011]      Figure 2 is a detailed process diagram of an embodiment of the volume coolant
fluid replacement method disclosed herein;
[00012]      Figure 3A and 3B are front views of a coolant fluid replacement device according
to an embodiment as disclosed herein;
[00013]      Figure 4A and 4B are rear views of the device of Figure 3;
[00014]      Figure 5 is a detailed view of pneumatic controllers, pressure generators and
vacuum generators of the device as depicted in Figure 3;
[00015]      Figure 6A is a side view of a quick connect nipple for use in various embodiments
of the device disclosed herein;
[00016]      Figure 6B is a cross-sectional view through Figure 6A;
                                                  4

[00017]     Figure 7 is a perspective view of the quick connect nipple of Figure 6A;
[00018]     Figure 8 is a detail of a quick connect nipple associated with a radiator cap;
100019]     Figure 9 is a bottom perspective view of the radiator cap of Figure 8;
[00020]     Figure 10 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of the device as disclosed
herein as coupled to a diesel engine radiator in which the system is operating in an evacuation
mode;
[00021]     Figure 11 is a schematic depiction of an embodiment of the device as disclosed
herein in which the system is operating in fill mode;
[00022]     Figure 12 is a schematic diagram of a representative diesel engine; and
[00023]     Figure 13 is representative operating instructions utilizing an embodiment of the
device disclosed herein to accomplish coolant drain operations; and
[00024]     Figure 14 is representative operating instructions utilizing an embodiment of the
device disclosed herein to accomplish coolant fill operations and pressure testing;
[00025]     Figures 15 A, 15B and 15C are partial cross-sectional views of an embodiment of
the pressure tank of a device as disclosed herein with an embodiment of a universal positive
float valve as disclosed herein in operative presence therein showing the sequence of fluid
removal;
[00026]     Figure 16 is an exploded view of an embodiment of the universal positive float
valve as disclosed herein;
[00027]     Figure 17 is a top view of the float valve of Figure 16 depicting an embodiment of
a plug member as disclosed herein;
[00028]     Figure 18 is a cross-sectional view of the float valve of Figure 16;
                                                 5

[00029]      Figure 19 is a side view of a float valve assembly with the float valve of Figure
16; and
[00030]      Figure 20 is a cross-sectional view of the float valve assembly of Figure 19.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00031]      Broadly disclosed herein, the present disclosure contemplates a method through
which a volume of coolant fluid can be introduced into the circulating system of a diesel engine
utilizing vacuum to obtain positive fluid flow. Without being bound to any theory, it is believed
that the use and application of the method as broadly disclosed herein can result in the
minimization and/or elimination of air pockets in the coolant fluid as it circulates in the cooling
system of the engine. This can protect the engine and reduce or eliminate thermal failure of
sensitive engine liners such as those found in the cylinder heads. Where desired or required, the
method includes pressurized delivery of coolant fluid into the circulating system as well as the
removal of coolant fluid from the circulating system utilizing vacuum and/or pressure. An
embodiment of the method of replacing a volume of coolant fluid is broadly disclosed and
illustrated in Figure 1.
100032]      As used herein, coolant fluid is generally defined as the aqueous or organic
material introduced into the cooling system of an associated diesel engine to transfer waste heat
out of block and various internal components of the engine. Typically, the cooling system can
include various pumps, radiator and/or heat exchangers as well as a coolant jacket and
circulating conduit together with suitable regulators such as thermostats and the like. Schematic
depiction of a representative diesel engine cooling system is set forth in Figure 12.
[00033]      In the method disclosed herein, pneumatic connection is established between the
circulating system in the diesel engine and a suitable remote recycling tank. This step is set
forth in the process diagram of Figure 1 at reference numeral 12. Pneumatic connection can be
established at any suitable location. In certain embodiments it is contemplated that the
pneumatic connection to the circulatory can be made in the radiator at a location on or
proximate to the radiator pressure cap. The suitable remote recycling tank can be any suitable
vessel in communication with the circulating system. It is contemplated that the method
                                                  6

disclosed herein can be efficaciously employed utilizing tan embodiment of the device which
will be described in greater detail subsequently.
100034]     The method 10 also includes the step of establishing fluid connection between the
circulating system and the associated diesel engine and the recycling tank. This step is outlined
in the process diagram at reference numeral 14. Fluid connection between the circulating
system and the recycling tank can be accomplished at any suitable location in the cooling
system. In various non-limiting embodiments, it is contemplated that the fluid connection will
be established at a position in the radiator. Where desired or required, the connection will be
established at the lowermost region of the radiator, generally opposed to the pneumatic
connection established in the pressure cap. This connection can be made at the radiator drain if
desired or required.
[00035]     The pneumatic and fluid connections can be established by any suitable means.
The connections will be configured so as to be removably established for the duration of the
coolant introduction (and/or removal) process. In various non-limiting embodiments it is
contemplated that the pneumatic and fluid connections will be established by suitable quick
connect mechanisms.
[00036]      Once the pneumatic and fluid connections have been established as at reference
numerals 12 and 14, suitable vacuum pressure can be exerted or drawn through the pneumatic
connection as at reference numeral 50. The vacuum pressure exerted can be any vacuum
pressure greater than zero and less than approximate 30 pounds vacuum per square inch.
Vacuum pressure will be exerted through the connection and provided by suitable external
vacuum generating mechanisms. In various non-limiting embodiments, it is contemplated that
the vacuum pressure mechanism will be present in a device associated with the remote
recycling tank. Non-limiting examples of such mechanisms are described in such detail
subsequently.
[00037]     The method also contemplates the introduction of coolant fluid into the
circulating system from the recycling tank through the established fluid connection as at
reference numeral 52. Coolant fluid introduction can be accomplished by any suitable
mechanism. It is contemplated that the coolant fluid is introduced into the circulating system of
                                                  7

the associated diesel engine under either positive or negative vacuum and/or pressure. The
pressure can be provided by suitable pressure generating devices associated with the recycling
tank. Various pressurization mechanisms will be described in greater detail subsequently.
Similarly, vacuum can be generated by suitable mechanisms as by vacuum venture and/or a
power device.
[00038]      The method disclosed herein contemplates the pressurized delivery of coolant
fluid into the circulating system or into a defined chamber in the circulating system such as the
radiator. The pressurized delivery can be accomplished with suitable vacuum assist where
desired or required. Fluid is introduced under pressure and/or vacuum to the coolant circulating
system. In this way, the coolant fluid can be introduced into the radiator or appropriate
chambers in the circulating system in a manner that reduces fluid cavitation, turbulence and the
like during the introduction process that can introduce air and air pockets into the circulating
coolant fluid. As such, it is contemplated that the exerted vacuum and/or exerted pressure will
be appropriately complimentary to facilitate this introduction.
[00039]      The volume of coolant fluid that is introduced into the engine system will be that
sufficient to maintain the coolant level at a suitable value for engine operation. Thus, this
volume can be anywhere from a fraction of the total volume of the coolant circulating system to
the total amount contained therein. The specific amount will be that necessary for the needs of
the given system. In certain instances, it is contemplated that the amount to be introduced will
be equal to that amount removed or lost during repair operations such as repair or replacement
of various radiator system components and the like. However, it is also contemplated that,
depending upon the engine repair operation employed, the radiator system can be drained and
coolant replaced to greater amounts as needed.
[00040]      The sequence of exertion of vacuum and introduction of coolant fluid can be that
necessary to optimally introduce coolant fluid into the circulating system. Thus, the vacuum
exertion and fluid introduction steps 50, 52 can occur simultaneously. In certain embodiments,
it is contemplated that coolant introduction will occur sequentially after the exertion of vacuum
pressure through the pneumatic connection. Still a third sequence contemplates intermittent or
pulsed exertion and introduction in which the vacuum pressure may vary. Typically in this
latter sequence pressure will be maintained even if it does vary.
                                                  8

[00041]      The defined fluid introduction process can continue until such time as the
appropriate volume of coolant has been transferred as at reference numeral 54. This end point
can be determined or defined by any suitable means. Non-limiting examples of such
determination means include electronic sensor or visual determination by an appropriate user.
Once the coolant fluid transfer operation is complete, the coolant fluid introduction steps with
the discontinuation of vacuum pressure and/or positive pressure can be discontinued and the
device connections disestablished as at reference numeral 56. If additional service or other
procedures are required, they can continue as needed. Alternately, if engine service successfully
completed, the engine can be brought back into service. Discontinuation of the vacuum
pressure and fluid introduction can occur simultaneously or can be staggered sequentially.
[00042]      Where desired or required, the method contemplated herein can also include
suitable steps whereby the coolant fluid is removed from the associated circulating system of
the diesel engine into the recycling tank. As broadly construed. an embodiment of the fluid
removal process is depicted in Figure 2. After pneumatic and fluid connections have been
established as at reference numerals 12 and 14, suitable pressure can be exerted on the
circulating system of the engine in general or on a specific chamber in the circulating system
such as the radiator through the established pneumatic connection. This process step is depicted
at reference numeral 20.
[00043]      In order to facilitate removal of the desired volume of the coolant fluid, vacuum
pressure can be drawn on the recycling tank as depicted at process step 22. This can occur
contemporaneous to the pressurization step 20 in certain embodiments. It is contemplated that
the pressure and vacuum exertion steps will continue contemporaneously for a sufficient
interval to remove the desired volume of coolant to the associated recycling tank.
[00044]      The volume of fluid removed can be equal to the total volume of fluid contained in
the engine coolant system or any lesser fraction thereof. In situations where limited service is
necessary such as replacement of a thermostat or sensor or the like, it may be possible that only
partial coolant removal is desired or required. However, in certain service regimens, complete
or near complete coolant removal may be desired or required. The volume of coolant to be
removed can be determined and ascertained by any suitable means. In certain embodiments, the
                                                   9

fluid removal volume may be measured and regulated by various sensors or other indicia.
However, it is also within the purview of embodiments of the invention that volume removal
may be ascertained by the user by suitable visible inspection or the like. In the process depicted
in Figure 2, coolant volume is ascertained at reference numeral 24.
[00045]      In the process depicted in Figure 2, once the appropriate volume of fluid has been
removed to the recycling tank, pressure and vacuum exertion is discontinued as at reference
numeral 26. Engine repair and service operations can proceed until completed as at reference
numeral 28. After appropriate service and repair operations are complete, vacuum pressure can
be exerted through the pneumatic connection as at reference numeral 50 and coolant
reintroduced into the circulating system from the recycling tank as at reference numeral 52.
[00046]      While certain embodiments contemplate the contemporaneous exertion of
pressure and vacuum as outlined in reference numerals 20 and 22, discontinuation of these two
activities can be either simultaneous or staggered, depending upon the specific system
requirements. In certain embodiments, it is contemplated that vacuum pressure exerted on the
recycling tank will be discontinued prior to the discontinuance of pressure through the
pneumatic connection in order to maintain the various collapsible hoses associated with the
engine and/or recycling tank in an open position. Similarly, it is contemplated that
discontinuance of vacuum and pressure operations can be staggered during the refill phase. In
certain embodiments, it is contemplated that the pressure operation during refill will be
discontinued prior to discontinuance of vacuum pressure in order to facilitate and further
remove any air pockets that may have developed in the circulating system during the refill
process.
[00047]      The process disclosed herein can be accomplished utilizing a suitably configured
removable disconnectable externally positioned device. A non-limiting embodiment of such a
device is depicted at reference numeral 100 in Figures 3, 4, and 5. The device 100 as depicted
in the various drawing figures includes a suitable pressurizable recycling tank 110 that is
connected to an appropriate vacuum generating device and pressure generating device. The
recycling tank 110 can be stationary if required. However, in the embodiment depicted in the
drawing figures, recycling tank 110 together with suitable optional vacuum generating
mechanism(s) and pressure generating mechanism(s) is transportably mounted to a suitable
                                                 10

device such as a frame 112. The transportable frame 112 can be either mechanized or not as
desired or required. In the embodiment depicted, the transportable frame 112 includes a suitable
base 118, wheels 120 and side frame members 120 with handles and the like.
[00048]      The device 100 can include suitable means for detachably connecting the
recycling tank 110 to the coolant recirculating system of an associated diesel engine. In the
embodiment depicted, the connection means include at least one fluid hose 124 and at least one
pneumatic hose 126. The fluid hose 124 and pneumatic hose 126 are coupled to the recycling
tank 110 at any suitable location. In the embodiment depicted, the fluid hose 124 is coupled to
the recycling tank 110 at a location proximate to the lower end 128 of recycling tank 110 when
the device 100 is in the operative or use position. The pneumatic hose 126 connection is located
in the general upper region 130 of recycling tank 110.
[00049]      Fluid hose 124 and pneumatic hose 126 each respectfully have ends distal to their
connection points with the recycling tank 110. Distal ends of hoses 124 and 126 are each
configured to releaseably connect to specified location in the associated coolant circulating
system of the engine. Where desired or required, the connection configuration can include
suitably configured quick connect mechanisms. The device 100 can include suitable closure or
isolating mechanisms such as shut off valve 132 configured to isolate the recycling tank 110
when the device 110 is not in operation.
[00050]      Recycling tank 110 will have a sufficient interior volume to receive the
transferred coolant fluid. Recycling tank 110 can be configured with suitable devices to insure
that air is not introduced into the circulating system. This can include suitable floats or shut off
valves positioned in the tank to prevent over-evacuation of the recycling tank during engine fill
operations or overfilling during removal operations.
[00051]       Where desired or required, the recycling tank 110 can be configured to maintain a
residual amount of coolant fluid in the tank to prevent or avoid accidental introduction of air
into the coolant circulating system. The device 100 can also include a suitable fill mechanism
in order to insure a proper amount of residual fluid is present in the recycling tank 110 to
further insure against accidental introduction of air. One non-limiting example of a suitable fill
device is fill tank 134 in fluid contact with recycling tank 110.
                                                  11

[00052]      The device 100 can also include a suitable control mechanism that can regulate
and direct the orientation of vacuum and pressure introduction. The device can include suitable
user-operated switches or can be automated as desired or required. In the embodiment depicted
in Figures 3, 4, and 5, it is contemplated that the device will be user operated by suitable
manual switches such as switches 140 and 142.
[00053]      In order to further describe the device and process disclosed herein, reference is
made to the schematic diagrams depicted in Figures 10 and 11. Device 100 is coupled to the
radiator R of the coolant circulating system of an appropriate diesel engine. The releasable
coupling is accomplished using suitable coupling mechanisms 150 and 152 located at the fill
cap and drain respectfully. The mechanisms 150 and 152 can be configured as suitable mating
quick connect mechanisms in which a first member is associated with the respective fluid line
or pneumatic line and a second matting member is integrally attached to the engine cooling
system at appropriate locations. Once communication has been established, filling or suitable
coolant evacuation can be begun. In evacuation mode as depicted in Figure 10, pressured air is
introduced through the air line 126 via fill cap 154 into radiator R. Where desired or required,
this pressured air introduction can occur through surge tank 156. The direction of air pressure
introduction is depicted by suitable arrows throughout the diagram in Figure 10.
[00054]      Pressurized air can be provided by any suitable means. The device 100 can
include suitable compressors if desired or required. However, in the embodiment depicted in
Figures 3, 4, and 5, the device 100 will include suitable coupling mechanisms to establish
communication with a suitable pressurized air supply such as a shop air or the like. The device
100 can also include suitable controllers and regulators, depicted generally at reference numeral
158 in order to regulate the introduced air supply and control or step down pressure from the
level delivered by the external pressurized air source to a pressure level appropriate for
operation of and use by the device 110. It is contemplated that the maximum pressure of air
introduced into the radiator through line 126 during evacuation mode will be one that is at or
below appropriate tolerances for the associated engine. In certain applications this will dictate a
pressure level at or below 15 pounds psi. It is understood that other pressure levels may be
utilized provided that the pressure introduced does not adversely affect the engine cooling
                                                  12

system. Thus the device 110 can include various pressure regulators and step down devices as
required.
100055]      Either simultaneously with the introduction of pressured air or sequential thereto,
a suitable vacuum is drawn on the fluid contained in the circulating cooling system through
fluid hose 124 connected to a suitable drain opening associated with connection 152. The
vacuum pressure is exerted on recycling tank 110 through suitable intermediate pneumatic line
or lines 160 in communication between recycling tank 110 and suitable vacuum generating
means. The vacuum generating means can be any suitable device or devices capable of
producing vacuum in recycling tank 110. Non-limiting examples of such devices include
various vacuum pumps and the like. In the embodiment depicted in Figure 10, the vacuum
generating device can be housed in controller 150 and can include a suitable pneumatic means
such as a venture(s) or the like triggered by the introduction of pressurized air from the exterior
air supply source.
[00056]      The vacuum that is exerted on recycling tank 110 results in a vacuum or negative
pressure in intermediate supply line 162. This results in drawing coolant fluid from the radiator
through fluid line 124 into intermediate line 162 and, ultimately, into recycling tank 110. Lines
124 and 162 can have suitable check valves to direct coolant fluid flow in the desired direction.
[00057]      In the schematic embodiment depicted in Figure 10, the device 100 includes a
suitable on board filter 164. The filter 164 is positioned in communication with fluid lines 124
and intermediate line 162. It is contemplated that in certain embodiments that during vacuum
evacuation processes, a small amounts or percentages of the evacuated fluid to pass through
filter 164 and line 168 entering the recycling tank in the upper region 118. However, it is
contemplated, that the larger volume of evacuated coolant fluid will traverse line 124 into line
162 and enter recycling tank 110 in the bottom region 116. It is also within the purview of this
disclosure to provide filtration devices that will contact all or most of the coolant fluid prior to
entry into the recycling tank 110.
100058]      The device 100 can include suitable volumetric measuring mechanisms to
ascertain the volume of fluid contained in recycling tank 110. One non-limiting example of
                                                  13

such a volume ascertainment mechanism is sight glass 170 which can be seen in Figures 3 and
4.
100059]      Completion of fluid evacuation can be determined by any number of indicia. The
user can refer site glass 170. If desired, controller 158 can be configured with suitable pressure
and vacuum gauges (not shown). It is contemplated that during the evacuation process, pressure
and vacuum will remain steady until the process nears completion at which time a pressure and
vacuum level drop will be noted. These phenomena can be utilized to trigger or signal the end
of evacuation mode. It is contemplated that these indicia can be employed to initiate an
automatic shut-off of the system. However, in various embodiments, such is that depicted in
Figures 3, 4, and 5, the shut-off can be user-initiated as by a suitable shut off switch 140.
[00060]      Once coolant fluid evacuation is completed, the radiator or other portions of the
cooling system can be serviced as desired or required. Once service operations are completed,
coolant fluid can be reintroduced into the radiator and associate coolant circulating system. One
non-limiting reintroduction configuration is depicted in the schematic in Figure 11. In order to
operate device 100 in fill mode, controller 150 reconfigures suitable valves and mechanisms
located therein in order to exert pressure in line 160 and vacuum in air line 126. In the fill mode
configuration, the pressure exerted on line 160 need not be constrained nor limited by radiator
operation parameters. Thus, in fill mode, the maximum air pressure introduced into line 160
can be higher than the 15 psi pressure maximum indicated previously.
[00061]      Air pressure introduced through line 160 into recycling tank 110 creates a
pressure head on coolant fluid contained therein. In order to maintain pressure, any lines such
as line 170 located between fill tank 134 and recycling tank 110 can be equipped with suitable
check valves such as check valve 172 to insure that the pressurization of tank 110 is maintained
during the filling operation. Similarly, intermediate line 168 can also be configured with a
suitable pressure check valve such as 172. During fill mode operations, pressurized coolant
fluid exits recycling tank 110 at lower location 128 through intermediate line 162. The coolant
fluid is directed through filter 164 and into bypass line 176. Bypass line 176 is connected to
line 178 which itself is connected to fluid line 124. Coolant fluid passing through line 124 is
introduced into the radiator at the connection mechanism 152 located proximate to the lower
region of the associated radiator R.
                                                   14

[00062]      During pressurized fluid introduction, vacuum is drawn on line 126 connected at
connection 150 proximate to fill cap 154 and surge tank 156. During fill operations, the radiator
experiences a negative pressure which urges coolant fluid into the radiator and any associated
regions in an orderly non-turbulent fashion. It is contemplated that the vacuum pressure exerted
on line 126 can be any pressure that is greater than 0 and is up to a pressure a vacuum level of
27 psi. In certain embodiments, it is contemplated that the vacuum level of greater than 27 can
be employed.
100063]      It can be appreciated that the pressure differential between pressurized fluid
introduced into the radiator and the vacuum into which it is introduced can have a value
between 10 and 60 psi. Without being bound to any theory, it is believed that the negative
pressure experienced by the radiator during the fill operations removes or reduces the air
pockets formed as a result of any cavitation or turbulent fluid flow which occurs during fluid
introduction into the radiator. Furthermore, without being bound to any theory, it is believed
that the pressure differential, in certain instances is sufficient to impact and dampen turbulent
fluid flow experienced upon fluid introduction.
[00064]      The phenomenon of pressure differential also exists in the evacuation mode cycle.
During evacuation, fluid is drawn from the radiator under vacuum with the associated
introduction of pressurized air at the fluid or pressure head. Thus, the radiator experiences a
pressure differential that exceeds the maximum value of pressurized air introduced. The
pressure differential achieved by operation of pressurized air introduction and vacuum permits
and facilitates the removal of coolant fluid. In effect, the fluid is removed under a pressure
differential that is effective for removal and is greater than the upper threshold for pressurized
air introduction.
[00065]      The fluid that is introduced during the fill operations can pass through filter 164.
Filter 164 is configured to trap or eliminate any particulate material as well as any other
contaminates to insure that the material is not introduced into the radiator during filling
operations. Where desired or required, this system can also be configured such that filter 164
can be placed in the fluid path to filter material during the evacuation mode cycle.
                                                   15

[00066]      In order to bring the device 100 into engaged fluid contact with the associated
vehicular circulation system, the vehicle can be configured with suitable engagement
mechanisms. Non-limiting examples of such engagement mechanisms can include quick
connect mechanisms.
[00067]      In certain embodiments, the radiator drain opening can be configured with one
part of a suitable quick connect member. Where desired or required, the device 100 can include
a suitable connector or coupler member 200 that can be configured to include or accommodate
a mating member of a quick connect coupling member. One embodiment is illustrated in
Figures 6 A, 6B and 7. Coupler member 200 includes nipple member 210 connected to filtering
212 by any suitable connection device.
[00068]      In the embodiment depicted, the coupler member 200 includes a nipple member
210 that is connected to a suitable fitting 212 by any suitable manner. In the embodiment
depicted in the drawing figures, the fitting 212 can be configured with an externally threaded
male protrusion configured to engage with internally threaded region 214 configured in the
central interior of body 210.
[00069]      Nipple member 210 can include appropriate step projections to maintain pressure
contact between hose member 124 and the exit. Such step indentations 214 include shoulders as
depicted in the drawing figures but are not considered limitative thereto. Where desired or
required, the nipple 210 can include a threaded region 210 located on the end 218 distal to
filtering 212.
[00070]      The upper radiator fitting can be located at any appropriate position relative to the
radiator. In various non-limiting embodiments, it is contemplated that the radiator cap 300 can
be configured with a suitable quick connect pressure fitting member 310 adapted to receive a
suitable mating quick connect member (not shown). The quick connect member 310 can
communicate with a suitable pressure bore 312 to permit the delivery of pressurized air or,
alternately, the exertion of vacuum.
[00071]      In the embodiment depicted the radiator cap 300 can include a suitable outer cap
body 314 configured to engage the outer surface of a corresponding radiator opening. In the
                                                 16

embodiment depicted, this can include suitable inwardly projecting flanges 316 that can engage
suitable external threads or other engagement devices present on the radiator opening.
100072]      The radiator cap 300 can be configures with one or more pressure seals 316, 318
in order to maintain pressure tight relationship during routine engine operation as well as
during fluid evacuation and replacement operations.
[00073]      The quick connect member 310 associated with the radiator cap 300 can project
outward from the top surface 320 of the cup body 314 and can include a suitable coupler 322
configured to matingly engage a suitable hose member on device 100 as a pressure fitting. In
the embodiment depicted, the quick connect member can include suitable spring loading
mechanisms to provide access to the upper portion of the through bore 312 and trigger opening
of the same.
[00074]      Various points of the disclosure are:
[00075]       1. The volume of coolant is introduced under pressure.
[00076]      2. The method of which the volume of coolant fluid is introduced is sufficient to
fill the engine circulating system.
[00077]      3. The method in which the volume of coolant fluid introduced is maintained in a
pressurizable recycling tank.
[00078]      4. The method of point 3 in which the coolant fluid is removed to the recycling
tank, a method comprising the steps of:
[00079]                  exerting gas pressure on fluid contained in the engine circulating system
wherein pressurization occurs through the established pneumatic connection;
100080]                  drawing a vacuum on the recycling tank and associated fluid connection,
the vacuum level sufficient to draw coolant fluid from the circulating system into ther recycling
tank.
                                                  17

[00081]      5. The method of point 4 wherein the pressurized gas employed during coolant
removal is at a value between 0 and 15 psi.
[00082]      6. The method of point 5 wherein the vacuum employed during the coolant
removal step is between 15 and 27 psi.
[00083]      7. The method of point 1 wherein at least one of said pneumatic connection
establishing step or said fluid connection establishing step utilize at least one quick connect
adapter device having a first member associated with the recycling tank and second member
associated with the diesel engine circulating system.
[00084]      8. The method of point 7 wherein the recycling tank is maintained on a remote
device in combination with a suitable pressurization device and a suitable vacuum generating
device.
[00085]      9. The method of point 1 wherein pneumatic communication with the volume of
coolant is established at a location proximate to a fill cup on a radiator and wherein fluid
communication is established at a drain on the radiator.
[00086]      10. The method of point 1 wherein pneumatic communication and fluid
communication are established by connecting the connecting circulatory system with a device
comprising a pressurizable coolant fluid recycling tank, at least one air pressure regulator and
connector releasably engageable with a pressurized air source. At least one vacuum generator
and at least one pressure regulator and means for alternating between pressure and vacuum.
[00087]      11. A device for reciprocatingly removing and replenishing coolant fluid in the
cooling system of a diesel engine comprising:
                 a pressurizable coolant fluid recycling tank;
                 at least one air pressure regulator and connector releasibly engageable
        with a pressurized air source;
                 at least one vacuum generator;
                                                   18

                 at least one pressure regulator;
                 means for switching between vacuum and pressure.
100088]      Also disclosed herein is a float device 400 that can be utilized with the in
combination with the pressure valve or other suitable container to stop fluid flow exiting from a
container such as container or reservoir 128 once the level reaches a predetermined (low) level.
The float device 400 has a shaft body such as elongated shaft body housing 410. The elongated
shaft body 410 has an exterior surface such as exterior surface 432 and can have any suitable
configuration such as the hexagonal external body surface as illustrated. The elongated shaft
body 410 also has a through shaft 434 which in the illustrated embodiment is a generally
cylindrical shaft. The shaft body housing 410 also has a first end 436 and an opposed second
end 438.
[00089]      The shaft body housing 410 has at least one bore 414 defined in the shaft body
housing 410 in an orientation which is generally perpendicularly oriented to the through shaft
434 and extends from the through shaft 434 and the exterior surface 432. In the embodiment
depicted in the various drawing figures, the shaft body housing 410 has a plurality of bores 414
circumferentially positioned around the shaft body 410 at a location between the first end 436
and second end 438. The bore(s) 414 are located generally proximate to the first end 436 of the
shaft body housing 410. The bore(s) 414 are configured to facilitate fluid flow there through as
desired or required. When the float device 400 in in the mounted use position, fluid can flow
through the bores 414 and through an associated opening defined in the bottom of the float
housing 410 such as opening 440.
[00090]      The float device 400 also includes a float member 412 that is moveably
positioned in the through shaft 434 in the shaft body housing 410. In the embodiment depicted
in the drawing figures, the float member 412 can be a spherical body of a weight and density
that will permit it to float on the surface of fluid as it is introduced or removed from an
associated reservoir such as container or reservoir 128. The float member 412 is configured to
move freely up and down the through bore between a first location 450 as illustrated in Figure
15A and second location 452 as illustrated in Figure 15B. The float member 412 can also move
to a third location 454 as depicted in Figure 15C. The float member 412 can have any suitable
configuration and/or material. The float member 412 will have a size and dimension greater
                                                    19

than the dimensions of the bore(s) 414. In the embodiment depicted in the various drawing
figures, the float member 412 is spherical and can be composed of a suitable rubber or metallic
material. The float member 412 can be hollow if needed or desired.
[00091]      The float device 400 also includes means for sealing the top or second end 438 of
the shaft body housing 410. It is contemplated that the shaft body housing 410 can have a seal
integral to the shaft body housing 410 in certain embodiments. In the embodiment depicted in
the various drawing figures, the float device 400 also includes a plug 4 424 having an opening
426 or other suitable venting means.
[00092]      The float device 400 also includes a seal seat member 422 such as O-ring seal.
The seal seat member 422 is configured to contact an internal shoulder 424 423 defined in the
interior through bore in the shaft body housing 410. The seated seal member 422 can be located
at a position generally proximate to the first end 436 of the shaft body housing 410. In the
embodiment depicted in the drawing figures, the through bore 434 has a first region 456 having
a first diameter proximate to the first end 436 of the shaft body housing 410 and a second
region 458 proximate to the second end 438 having a second diameter. In the embodiment
depicted in the various drawing figures, the fL/2st diameter of the first region 456 is less than
that of the second diameter with two regions contiguously connected to each other at a location
defining a shoulder 425 of sufficient size and dimension to seat the seal seat member 422.
[00093]      In the embodiment depicted in the drawing figures, the bore(s) 414 are located in
the shaft body housing 410 relative to the shoulder 425 such that, when the float member 412 is
seated on the seal seat member 422, the float member 412 is contained at a lower location
bounded by the seal seat 422 on the lower portion and the bore(s) 414 at the upper region.
[00094]      The shaft body housing 414 can also include suitable means for engaging an
associated member such as a cap member 419. In the shaft body housing 410 can have an
engagement region such as threaded region 416 configured to engage a matingly threaded
region defined in an associated element such as a cap 419. The associated cap 419 can be
configured to engage a suitable opening in a corresponding reservoir such as reservoir 128. Cap
419 can be configured as desired or required. In the embodiment depicted in the drawing
                                                 20

figures, the cap 419 includes a suitable joint 420 in fluid communication with a member of
quick connect member 422.
100095]       When the fluid level is above the float member 412 (Fluid level 1 as depicted in
Figure 15A), the ball float member 412 is prevented from leaving the shaft body hosing 410 by
the vented plug 424. Fluid can leave the container 128 through holes or bores 414 in the shaft
body housing 410 and on through the bottom of the device 400. When the fluid level drops
(Fluid level 2 as depicted in Figure 15B), the ball float 412 drops with the fluid level. As the
fluid continues to drop, the float member 412 passes the bore(s) 414, slowing the rate of fluid
flow out of the reservoir 128. When the fluid level falls below the bores 414 (Fluid level 3 as
depicted in Figure 15C), the ball float member 412 will seat against the seat seal 422 such as 0
ring seal and prevent further fluid flow.
[00096]       This device may be used to prevent unwanted air from entering a fluid conduit. It
may be used as a control by sending a signal (pressure or vacuum) to a switch. It may be used
as a volumetric measuring device.
[00097]       In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
[00098]       It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
[00099]       While the invention has been described in connection with certain embodiments,
it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but,
on the contrary, is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements
included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims, which scope is to be accorded the
broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures as is
permitted under the law.
                                                    21

    What is claimed is:
             1.       A valve device comprising:
             a shaft body having an exterior surface, a first end and an opposed second end, the shaft
    body defining a through shaft extending from the first end to the second end defining an interior,
  5 the shaft body having at least two bores defined therein and positioned coplanar to one another in
    a plane parallel to a liquid level when a liquid is present in the shaft, the at least two bores each
    extending from the exterior surface to the through shaft, wherein the at least two bores each
    define an area;
             a float member configured to traverse the interior of the through shaft, the float member
 .0 having a height, the float member having a size greater that the area of each of the at least two
    bores, the float member and the through shaft configured so as to constrain vertical movement of
    the float member in the interior of the through shaft to a defined vertical path;
             at least one seated seal positioned at a fixed location in the interior of the through shaft
    proximate to the first end of the shaft member, the seated seal configured to releasibly contact
 .5 the float member; and
             at least one stop member located proximate the second end of the shaft in contact with the
    shaft body, the stop member having at least one vent hole defined therein and the vent hole
    communicating with the through shaft, the stop member comprising a shaft plug insertably
    positioned and extending a distance into the shaft body, the shaft plug defining a vent hole.
  0          2.       The valve device of claim 1, wherein the through shaft of the float valve is
    composed of at least two regions, wherein a first region has a first diameter and the second
    region has a second diameter, wherein the first diameter is greater than the second diameter and
    the first and second regions are contiguously connected to one another by means of at least one
    shoulder member, the seated seal positioned on the shoulder member.
25           3.       The valve device of claim 2, wherein the at least two bores are defined in the shaft
    at a location in the first region of the shaft in planar relationship to one another wherein each
    bore is located at a distance from the shoulder member, wherein the distance is equal to or
    greater than the height of the float member.
                                                         22

             4.       The valve device of any one of claims I to 3, wherein the shaft body has an
    engagement surface defined on the exterior surface of the shaft at a location proximate to the first
    end of the shaft body.
             5.       The valve device of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising at least one cap
  5 member, the cap member engageable with a tank member, the cap member having at least one
    element of a quick connector, the cap member connected to the second end of the shaft body and
    configured to engage a suitable opening defined in the lower portion of a corresponding
    reservoir.
             6.       The valve device of claim 2, wherein the at least two bores are defined in the
 .0 shaft body at a location in the first region of the shaft, wherein the at least two bores are located
    at a distance from the shoulder, wherein the distance is equal to or greater than the height of the
    float member, wherein the at least two bores communicate with the through shaft, and wherein
    the valve device is operatively located in the lower region of a pressurizable fluid recycling tank
    device for reciprocatingly removing and replenishing fluid in a system of an engine that includes:
 .5          a pressurizable fluid recycling tank;
             at least one air pressure regulator and connector releasibly engageable with a pressurized
    air source;
             at least one vacuum generator;
             at least one pressure regulator; and
 .0          means for switching between vacuum and pressure.
             7.       The valve device of claim 6 utilized in a method for replacing a volume of fluid in
    a circulating system in an automotive system, the method comprising the steps of:
             establishing pneumatic connection with at least one pneumatic connection location in the
    automotive fluid circulating system;
25           establishing fluid connection with at least one fluid connection location in the automotive
    fluid circulating system, the fluid connection location being different from the pneumatic
    connection location, wherein the fluid connection places the circulating system of the automotive
    system in fluid contact with a collection reservoir external to the automotive system;
                                                       23

           after pneumatic and fluid connection is established, drawing a vacuum pressure through
  said pneumatic connection and introducing the volume of fluid into said collection reservoir,
  through the valve device of claim 2.
           8.      The valve device of claim I or 2, wherein the at least two bores are defined in the
5 shaft at a location in the first region of the shaft in planar relationship to one another wherein the
  at least two bores are located at a distance from the shoulder, wherein the distance is equal to the
  height of the float member.
                                                      24

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
