                                             Abstract
   The present invention generally relates to a cassette for the preparation of an imaging
          agent, comprising:
 5        (i) a vessel containing an imaging agent precursor;
          (ii) a vessel containing a bicarbonate salt; and
          (iii) a conduit for adding a source of 18F,
          wherein the imaging agent precursor comprises the formula:
                                            0
                                             R~   R2
10        wherein:
                   R' is alkyl;
                   R2 is halogen; and
                   R3 is alkoxyalkyl substituted with a sulfonate-containing group; and
          wherein the imaging agent comprises the formula:
                                          0
                                    R           R2
                                            N           N
15                                                           R
          wherein:
                   R' is alkyl;
                   R2 is halogen; and
                   R3 is alkoxyalkyl substituted with 18F.
20

                                                 -1
      METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR SYNTHESIZING IMAGING AGENTS,
                             AND INTERMEDIATES THEREOF
                                       Related Applications
 5                 The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number <removed-apn>, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference. The parent application is a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number 2011213568, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference. The grandparent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to U.S.
10 provisional application, U.S.S.N. 61/302,477, filed February 8, 2010, entitled "Methods
   and Apparatus for Synthesizing Contrast Agents, Including Radiolabeled Contrast
   Agents;" U.S. provisional application, U.S.S.N. 61/315,376, filed March 18, 2010,
   entitled "Methods for Synthesizing Contrast Agents and Precursors Thereof;" and U.S.
   provisional application, U.S.S.N. 61/333,693, filed May 11, 2010, entitled
15 "Compositions, Methods, and Systems for Imaging," each of which is incorporated
   herein by reference.
                                       Field of the Invention
           The present invention relates to systems, compositions, methods, and apparatuses
20 for synthesizing imaging agents, and precursors thereof.
                                  Background of the Invention
           Mitochondria are membrane-enclosed organelles distributed through the cytosol
   of most eukaryotic cells. Mitochondria are especially concentrated in myocardial tissue.
25         Complex I ("MC- 1") is a membrane-bound protein complex of 46 dissimilar
   subunits. This enzyme complex is one of three energy-transducing complexes that
   constitute the respiratory chain in mammalian mitochondria. This NADH-ubiquinone
   oxidoreductase is the point of entry for the majority of electrons that traverse the
   respiratory chain, eventually resulting in the reduction of oxygen to water (Q. Rev.
30 Biophys. 1992, 25, 253-324). Examples of inhibitors of MC-1 include deguelin,
   piericidin A, ubicidin-3, rolliniastatin-1, rolliniastatin-2 (bullatacin), capsaicin,
   pyridaben, fenpyroximate, amytal, MPP+, quinolines, and quinolones (BBA 1998, 1364,
   222-235). Studies have shown that interrupting the normal function of mitochondria

                                                -2
   could advantageously concentrate certain compounds in the mitochondria, and hence in
   the mitochondria-rich myocardial tissue. Compounds that include an imaging moiety
   (e.g., 18F) can be useful in determining such a build-up of compounds, thereby providing
   valuable diagnostic markers for myocardial perfusion imaging. In addition, such
 5 compounds may find application for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD).
            CAD is a major cause of death in modem industrialized countries and it has been
   found previously that assessments of regional myocardial perfusion at rest and during
   stress (exercise or pharmacologic coronary vasodilation) are valuable for noninvasive
   diagnosis of CAD. While myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) with Positron Emission
10 Tomography (PET) has been shown to be superior in some embodiments as compared to
   single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), widespread clinical use of PET
   MPI has been limited by the previously available PET myocardial perfusion tracers.
            Several PET blood flow tracers, such as rubidium-82 (82 Rb) chloride, nitrogen-13
   ( N) ammonia, and oxygen-15 (15)       water, have been developed and validated for
15 assessment of myocardial perfusion. "N and         0 are cyclotron-produced isotopes with
   short half-lives. Therefore, their use is limited to facilities with an on-site cyclotron.
   Although 82 Rb is a generator-produced tracer, its short half-life, the high cost of the
   generator, and the inability to perform studies in conjunction with treadmill exercise
   have made this tracer impractical for widespread use. Tracers that comprise       18F have,
20 however, found potential application as imaging agents.
            While current methods for preparing compounds comprising an imaging moiety
   include [I8F]-fluorination chemistry, many methods focus on nucleophilic [18F]
   fluorination chemistry using potassium fluoride (KF). Characteristically, these methods
   generate the elemental fluoride source through anion exchange between, for example,
25 potassium carbonate (K2 C0 3 ) and a cyclotron-produced [I8F]-containing species, and
   often require addition of the aza-crown ether Kryptofix* 222 (4,7,13,16,21,24-hexaoxa
   1,10-diazabicyclo[8.8.8]-hexacosane) to enhance reactivity. While suitable for
   production of clinical quantities, the moderate efficiency, demanding purification and
   complex implementation of such method may not be suitable for widespread
30 commercial application.
            Accordingly, improved methods, systems, and apparatuses are needed for the
   synthesis of imaging agents.

                                                    -3
                                      Summary of the Invention
                    The invention provides, in a broad sense, methods for synthesizing
   imaging agents and their precursors, compounds that are imaging agents precursors, and
   methods of use thereof.
 5         In one aspect, in invention provides a method of synthesizing an imaging agent
   comprising formula:
                                              0
                                       R1           R2
                                           N
                                                   W        -(R 3 ).
   wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted; R' is alkyl, optionally
   substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; each R3 can be the same or different and is alkyl
10 optionally substituted with an imaging moiety or heteroalkyl optionally substituted with
   an imaging moiety; and n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; the method comprising steps of:
   etherification of precursor compounds comprising formulae:
                                    0
                            R1  ,         R            R  - \
                                  N                                  1
                                 N         5
                                          R    and                      (R3)n
   wherein n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide;
15 R3 can be the same or different and are alkyl, heteroalkyl, or a carbonyl-containing
   group, each optionally substituted, R5 is hydroxyl or halide; and R6 is alkyl, heteroalkyl,
   or a carbonyl-containing group, each optionally substituted, wherein, when R5 is
   hydroxyl, at least one of R6 and R3 comprises a leaving group; or wherein R5 is halide, at
   least one of R6 or R3 comprises a hydroxyl, to produce a compound comprising formula:
                                                  0
                                            R1         R2
                                                N
                                                       W          -(R)n
               20
20
   wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted; R' is alkyl, optionally
   substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; each R3 can be the same or different and is alkyl
   optionally substituted with hydroxyl or heteroalkyl optionally substituted with hydroxyl;
   wherein at least one R3 comprises hydroxyl; and n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; R' is alkyl,

                                                -4
   optionally substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; R3 can be the same or different and are
   alkyl, heteroalkyl, or a carbonyl-containing group, each optionally substituted;
   reacting a compound comprising formula:
                                            0
                                     R1         R2
                                        N
                                                W        -(R 3 ).
 5 wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted; R' is alkyl, optionally
   substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; each R3 can be the same or different and is alkyl
   optionally substituted with hydroxyl or heteroalkyl optionally substituted with hydroxyl;
   wherein at least one R3 comprises hydroxyl; and n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; with a sulfonate
   containing species to produce a sulfonate-containing compound comprising formula:
                                               0
                                         R1         R2
                                             N
10                                                 W
   wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted; R' is alkyl, optionally
   substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; each R3 can be the same or different and is alkyl
   optionally substituted with a sulfonate-containing group or heteroalkyl optionally
   substituted with a sulfonate-containing group; wherein at least one R3 comprises a
15 sulfonate-containing group; and n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; replacing the sulfonate-containing
   group of the sulfonate-containing compound with an imaging moiety to yield a
   compound comprising formula:
                                            0
                                     RN         R2
                                         IN
   wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted; R' is alkyl, optionally
20 substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; each R3 can be the same or different and is alkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety or heteroalkyl optionally substituted with
   an imaging moiety; and n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; provided that at least one fluorine species is
   present in the compound.

                                                   -5
             In one aspect, the invention provides a method for 18F-labeling a compound
   comprising formula:
                                            0
                                      R"          R2
                                          N
                                                  O
                            1                                  3
   wherein R' is alkyl; R2 is hydrogen or halogen; and R3 is alkyl substituted with a
 5 sulfonate-containing group, alkoxy substituted with a sulfonate-containing group, or
   alkoxyalkyl substituted with a sulfonate-containing group. The method comprises
   reacting the compound with an 18F species in the presence of an ammonium salt or a
                                                        18
   bicarbonate salt to form a product comprising the       F species.
             In some embodiments, R3 is alkoxyalkyl substituted with a sulfonate-containing
10 group. In some embodiments, the sulfonate-containing group is mesylate, tosylate,
   triflate, or 1,2-cyclic sulfate. In some embodiments, R2 is a halogen. In one
   embodiment, R2 is chloride. In some embodiments, R' is a methyl, ethyl, propyl, n
   butyl, s-butyl, or t-butyl. In some embodiments, R' is t-butyl. In some embodiments, the
   product comprises formula:
                                        0
                                t-BuN        CI
                                     N       O0
15                                                                   8
             In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing a precursor to
   (or of) an imaging agent, comprising reacting a compound comprising formula (III) with
   a nucleophile, wherein formula (III) comprises the structure:
                                          0
                                    RN          R2
                                       N
20 wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted; R' is alkyl, optionally
   substituted; R2 is hydrogen or halide; each R3 can be the same or different and is an alkyl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group or heteroalkyl optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, provided R3 comprises at least one leaving group; and n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5,
   provided at least one R3 is substituted with a leaving group; with a nucleophile wherein

                                                 -6
   the nucleophile replaces the at least one leaving group to produce a product (or
   precursor).
           In some embodiments, the nucleophile is ethylene glycol. In some embodiments,
   reacting the compound with the nucleophile occurs in the presence of a base. The base
 5 may be but is not limited to a metal or a metal salt. The base may be sodium metal,
   sodium hydride, potassium t-butoxide, potassium carbonate, or potassium hydroxide. In
   some embodiments, the base is potassium t-butoxide or potassium hydroxide. In some
   embodiments, the base is potassium t-butoxide.
           In some embodiments, reacting the compound with the nucleophile occurs in the
10 presence of a catalyst. The catalyst may be a tetraalkylammonium iodide including but
   not limited to a tetraethylammonium iodide.
           In some embodiments, the leaving group is a halide including but not limited to
   bromide.
           In some embodiments, W is -O(CH 2 )-; R' is t-butyl; R 2 is chloride; and R3 is
15 alkyl substituted with a leaving group.
           In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (III) comprises the
   structure:
                                         0
                                   R"          R2
                                       'N
                                               N             Br
           In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (III) comprises the
20 structure:
                                          0
                                  tBu'N         CI
                                        IN
                                                         S    Br
           In some embodiments, the product (or precursor) comprises formula:
                                      0
                                RN          R2
                                   N        OO                   H
           In some embodiments, the product (or precursor) comprises formula:

                                                 -7
                                        0
                               tBu N        CI
                                            0       "N           OH
                                                            O    O 0
            In some embodiments, the method further comprises reacting a compound
   comprising formula (IV) with a reactant comprising a leaving group to produce the
   compound comprising formula (III), wherein formula (IV) comprises the structure:
                                          0
                                    R         R2
                                       N
                                                     -(R (R
 5                                                            (IV)
   wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted; R' is alkyl, optionally
   substituted; R2 is hydrogen or halide; each R4 can be the same or different and is an alkyl
   optionally substituted with hydroxyl or heteroalkyl optionally substituted with hydroxyl;
   provided R4 comprises at least one hydroxyl group; and n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and wherein
10 the at least one hydroxyl is replaced with the leaving group.
            In some embodiments, reacting the compound comprising formula (IV) is
   performed in the presence of a halogenation reagent. In some embodiments, the
   halogenation reagent is a brominating reagent. The brominating reagent may be
   phosphorus tribromide, pyridinium dibromide, or a combination of carbon tetrabromide
15 and triphenylphospine, although it is not so limited.
            In some embodiments, W is -O(CH 2 )-; R' is t-butyl; R2 is chloride; and R4 is
   alkyl substituted with hydroxyl.
            In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) comprises the
   structure:
                                          0
                                    1,         R
                                   R
                                       N
20                                     N       O              OH
            In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) comprises the
   structure:

                                                  -8
                                          0
                                   tBu'N       CI
                                                        0"-C    OH
            In some embodiments, the product comprises formula:
                                          0
                                     R"        R2
                                            N  OBr
            In some embodiments, the product comprises formula:
                                           0
                                    tBu'N       CI
 5                                              0               Br
            In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) is formed by
   etherification of precursor compounds comprising formulae (IVa) and (IVb):
                             0
                        RN           R
                                                       R
                                   R5 (IVa)    and                 (R7)m (I~b),
   wherein m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 or greater; R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; R 2 is hydrogen
10 or halide; R 5 is hydroxyl or halide; and R6 and R7 can be the same or different and each
   is alkyl, heteroalkyl, or a carbonyl-containing group, each of which may be optionally
   and independently substituted, wherein when R 5 is hydroxyl at least one of R6 and R7
   comprises a leaving group or a group that can be replaced by a leaving group, or when
   R5 is halide, at least one of R6 and R7 comprise a hydroxyl.
15          In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) is formed by
   etherification of the compounds comprising formulae:
                                       0
                               tBu
                                                   dC R(
                                       N    R5  and(R7"
   wherein m is 1 or greater; R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; R5
   is hydroxyl or halide; and R and R7 can be the same or different and each is alkyl,
20 heteroalkyl, or a carbonyl-containing group, any of which may be substituted, wherein
   when R5 is hydroxyl at least one of R6 and R7 comprises a leaving group or a group that

                                                -9
   can be replaced by a leaving group, or when R5 is halide, at least one of R6 and R7
   comprises a hydroxyl.
           In some embodiment, the compound comprising formula (IV) is formed by
   etherification of precursor compounds comprising formulae (IVa) and (IVd):
                              0
                        R1,        R2
                            Ns                         R6          R7
 5                                 R5 (IVa)   and                     (IVd),
   wherein R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; R5 is hydroxyl or
   halide; and R6 and R7 can be the same or different and each is alkyl, heteroalkyl, or a
   carbonyl-containing group, each of which may be optionally and independently
   substituted, wherein when R 5 is hydroxyl at least one of R6 and R7 comprises a leaving
10 group, or when R5 is halide, at least one of R6 and R7 comprises a hydroxyl.
           In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) is formed by
   etherification of compounds comprising formulae:
                                      0
                               tBusN      CI
                                                            a     R
                                          R5 and      R
   wherein R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; R 2 is hydrogen or halide; R5 is hydroxyl or
15 halide; and R6 and R7 can be the same or different and each is alkyl, heteroalkyl, or a
   carbonyl-containing group, any of which may be substituted, wherein when R5 is
   hydroxyl at least one of R6 and R7 comprises a leaving group, or when R5 is halide, at
   least one of R6 and R7 comprises a hydroxyl, or when R5 is halide, at least one of R6 and
   R7 comprises a hydroxyl..
20         In some embodiments, the etherification comprises reacting the precursor
   compounds in the presence of a base. In some embodiments, the base comprises a
   carbonate ion.
           In some embodiments, R5 is halide; and R6 and R7 is each substituted alkyl.
           In some embodiments, R5 is chloride; and R6 and R7 is each alkyl substituted with
25 a hydroxyl.
           In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) is synthesized by
   etherification of precursor compounds comprising formulae:

                                                 - 10
                           0
                      R           R2                                 OH
                         N        CI   (IVe) and       HO   -           (IVf)
   wherein R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; R2 is hydrogen or halide; to form a product
   comprising formula:
                                          0
                                       N
 5          In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) is synthesized by
   etherification of compounds comprising formulae:
                                     0
                           tBu..         CI                         OH
                                 N.C.    Gland       HO
   to form a product comprising formula:
                                           0
                                   tBu'N        CI
                                             N
                                                          .-   OH
10          In some embodiments, R5 is hydroxyl; and R6 is a carbonyl-containing group and
   R7 is a substituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R5 is hydroxyl; and R6 is an ester and R7
   is alkyl substituted with a leaving group.
            In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) is synthesized by
   etherification of the compounds comprising formulae:
                                     0
                            tBu           CI            O            Br
15                                 N      OH and      MeOY,
   to form a product comprising formula:
                                         0
                                 tBu'N         CI
                                                              OCH 3
                                                          0

                                                - 11
            In some embodiments, the method further comprises exposing the product to a
   reducing agent to convert the ester group to an alcohol. The reducing agent may be
   lithium aluminum hydride, lithium borohydride, or diisobutylaluminum hydride
   (DIBAL-H), although it is not so limited.
 5          In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing an imaging
   agent comprising contacting an imaging agent precursor with a fluoride species and an
   ammonium salt under conditions that result in the fluoride species replacing the leaving
   group to produce an imaging agent comprising the fluoride species wherein the molar
   ratio of ammonium salt to imaging agent precursor is less than 1.5:1, including about 1:1
10 or less.
            In some embodiments, the molar ratio of ammonium salt to imaging agent
   precursor is about 1:1 or less, or about 0.75:1 or less, or about 0.5:1 or less, or about
   0.25:1 or less, or about 0.05:1 or less. In some embodiments, the molar ratio of
   ammonium salt to imaging agent precursor is from about 1:1 to about 0.5:1. In some
15 embodiments, the molar ratio of ammonium salt to imaging agent precursor ranges from
   about 1.4:1 to about 0.05:1.
            In some embodiments, the ammonium salt is ammonium bicarbonate, ammonium
   hydroxide, ammonium acetate, ammonium lactate, ammonium trifluoroacetate,
   ammonium methanesulfonate, ammonium p-toluenesulfonate, ammonium nitrate,
20 ammonium iodide, or ammonium bisulfate. In some embodiments, the ammonium salt is
   a tetraalkylammonium salt. The ammonium salt may be R 4NHCO 3, wherein R is alkyl.
   The ammonium salt may be Et 4NHCO 3.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing an imaging
   agent, comprising contacting an imaging agent precursor with a fluoride species and a
25 bicarbonate salt under conditions that result in the fluoride species replacing the leaving
   group to produce an imaging agent comprising the fluoride species, wherein the molar
   ratio of bicarbonate salt to imaging agent precursor is less than 1.5:1, including about 1:1
   or less.
   In some embodiments, the molar ratio of bicarbonate salt to imaging agent precursor is
30 about 1:1 or less, or about 0.75:1 or less, or about 0.5:1 or less, or about 0.25:1 or less, or
   about 0.05:1. In some embodiments, the molar ratio of bicarbonate salt to imaging
   agent precursor is from about 1:1 to about 0.5:1. In some embodiments, the molar ratio
   of bicarbonate salt to imaging agent precursor ranges from about 1.4:1 to about 0.05:1.

                                                - 12
   In some embodiments, wherein the molar ratio of bicarbonate salt to imaging agent
   precursor is from about 0.5:1 to about 1:1.
           In some embodiments, the bicarbonate salt is a metal bicarbonate. The
   bicarbonate salt may be sodium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, potassium
 5 bicarbonate, or magnesium bicarbonate, although it is not so limited.
           In some embodiments, the bicarbonate salt is ammonium bicarbonate. In some
   embodiments, the bicarbonate salt is an tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate. The
   bicarbonate salt comprises the formula R 4NHCO 3, wherein R is alkyl. The bicarbonate
   salt may be Et 4NHCO 3.
10         In some embodiments, the imaging agent precursor is further exposed to a
   cryptand, such as but not limited to 4,7,13,16,21,24-Hexaoxa-1,10-diazabicyclo[8.8.8]
   hexacosane.
           In some embodiments, contacting is performed in the absence of a carbonate salt
   such as but not limited to potassium carbonate.
15         In some embodiments, the contacting is performed in the absence of a cryptand,
   such as but not limited to 4,7,13,16,21,24-Hexaoxa-1,10-diazabicyclo[8.8.8]-hexacosane.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing an imaging
   agent, comprising contacting an imaging agent precursor with a fluoride species under
   conditions that result in the fluoride species replacing the leaving group to produce an
20 imaging agent comprising the fluoride species, wherein the contacting is performed at a
   pH below 7. In some embodiments, the contacting is performed at a pH below 6, or at a
   pH below 5, or at a pH between 5 and 6.
           In some embodiments, the leaving group is a sulfonate-containing group. The
   leaving group may be a mesylate, tosylate, triflate, or 1,2,-cyclic sulfate group. In some
25 embodiments, the leaving group is a tosylate group. In some embodiments, the fluoride
   species is an 18F ion.
           In some embodiments, the imaging agent precursor comprises formula (I):

                                               -   13
                              0
                          N              R2 1 R2 2    R2
                           N                                 R24
                                                   n
                              R 27                                  K
                                                       25L
                                                         R            L
                                                               M           (j),
   wherein J is selected from the group consisting of N(R28), S, 0, C(=O), C(=O)O,
   NHCH 2CH 20, a bond, and C(=O)N(R 27); when present, K is selected from the group
   consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, alkyloxy
 5 optionally substituted with a leaving group, aryl optionally substituted with a leaving
   group, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, heteroaryl optionally
   substituted with a leaving group, and a leaving group; when present, L is selected from
   the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with a leaving
   group, alkyloxy optionally substituted with a leaving group, aryl optionally substituted
10 with a leaving group, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, heteroaryl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group, and a leaving group; M is selected from the
   group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group,
   alkyloxy optionally substituted with a leaving group, aryl optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, heteroaryl
15 optionally substituted with a leaving group, and a leaving group; or L and M, together
   with the atom to which they are attached, may form a three-, four-, five-, or six
   membered carbocyclic ring; Q is halo or haloalkyl; n is 0, 1, 2, or 3; R21, R22, R27 , and
   R28 are independently selected from hydrogen, C1 -C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, and a leaving group; R23, R24, R25 , and R26 are independently selected
20 from hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, alkyloxy, C1 -C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, and a leaving group; R29 is C1 -C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a
   leaving group; and Y is selected from the group consisting of a bond, carbon, and
   oxygen; provided that when Y is a bond, K and L are absent, and M is selected from the
   group consisting of aryl optionally substituted with a leaving group and heteroaryl
25 optionally substituted with a leaving group; and provided that when Y is oxygen, K and
   L are absent, and M is selected from hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, aryl optionally substituted with a leaving group, C 1-C6 alkyl optionally

                                                   -  14
   substituted with a leaving group, and heteroaryl optionally substituted with a leaving
   group; provided that at least one leaving group is present in formula (I).
            In some embodiments, the imaging agent comprises formula (II):
                                  0
                       R29Q
                                               21    22
                                       N     R    R       R23
                                       N                          R24
                                                        n
                                  R27                                  /K
                                                          R25/            L
                                                                    M       (II),
 5 wherein J is selected from the group consisting of N(R2), S, 0, C(=O), C(=0)O,
   NHCH 2CH 20, a bond, and C(=O)N(R 27); when present, K is selected from the group
   consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety,
   alkyloxy optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, aryl optionally substituted with
   an imaging moiety, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, heteroaryl
10 optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, and an imaging moiety; when present, L
   is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted
   with an imaging moiety, alkyloxy optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, aryl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with an
   imaging moiety, heteroaryl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, and an
15 imaging moiety; M is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, alkyloxy optionally substituted with an
   imaging moiety, aryl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, C1 -C6 alkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, heteroaryl optionally substituted with an
   imaging moiety, and an imaging moiety; or L and M, together with the atom to which
20 they are attached, may form a three- or four-membered carbocyclic ring;        Q is halo or
   haloalkyl; n is 0, 1, 2, or 3; R21, R22, R27 , and R28 are independently selected from
   hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, and an imaging
   moiety; R23, R24, R25 , and R26 are independently selected from hydrogen, halogen,
   hydroxyl, alkyloxy, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, and an
25 imaging moiety; R 2 9 is C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety; and Y
   is selected from the group consisting of a bond, carbon, and oxygen; provided that when
   Y is a bond, K and L are absent, and M is selected from the group consisting of aryl

                                                - 15
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety and heteroaryl optionally substituted with
   an imaging moiety; and provided that when Y is oxygen, K and L are absent, and M is
   selected from hydogen. alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, aryl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, C [-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with an
 5 imaging moiety, and hetemaryl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety; provided
   that at least one imaging moiety is present in formula (II), wherein the imaging moiety is
    xF.
            In some embodiments, J is O. in some embodiments. R 9 is methyl, ethyln
   propyl, i-propyl, n-butyl, i-butyl, or t-butyl, each optionally substituted with a leaving
10 group. In some embodiments, R79 is t-butyl. In some embodiments.          Q is chloro. In
   some embodiments, each of R 1 , R7 R" Ro,R R               and R' is hydrogen.
            In some embodiments, Y is carbon, K and L are hydrogen, and M is selected
   from the group consisting of alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group.
   alkyloxy optionally substituted with a leaving group, aryl optionally substituted with a
15 leaving group, Ci-Cs alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving gmup. heteroaryl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group, and a leaving group.
            In some embodiments, Y is carbon. K and L is each hydrogen, and M is alkyloxy
   optionally substituted with a leaving group.
            In some embodiments, the imaging agent precursor comprises fotrula:
                                         0
                                       N
20                                                                      L,
   wherein L is a leaving group.
            In some embodiments, the imaging agent comprises frorula
                                      0
                                R N          R21RW
                                                                      Im(X),
   wherein Im is an imaging moiety.
25          In some embodiments, the imaging agent precursor comprises:

                                                - 16
                                      0
                                        I
                                    N)
                                    Ne!                             L,
   wherein L is a leaving group.
           In some embodiments, he imaging agent comprises formula:
                                  las 0
                                   N
                                 RsN
                                                                   Im
 5 wherein Im is an imaging moiety.
           In some embodiments, the imaging agent precursor comprises formula:
                                      0
                             t-Bu, N       Q
                                   t          0N
           In some embodiments, the imaging agent comprising the fluoride species
   comprises formula:
                                       0
10
           In some embodiments, the method further comprises purifying the imaging agent
   using at least one purification technique. In some embodiments, the purification
   technique is chromatography such as but not limited to HPLC. In some embodiments,
   the purification technique is filtration such as but not limited to filtration through a C-18
15 resin.
           In some embodiments, the method further comprises combining the imaging
   agent with a stabilizing agent. In some embodiments, the stabilizing agent is ascorbic
   acid, or a salt thereof
           In another aspect, the invention provides a method for manufacturing an imaging
20 agent comprising formula:

                                                 -17
                                       0
                              t-BuN        I
                                                            0
                                                            O N18F,
   the method comprising, (a) contacting a tosylate precursor comprising formula:
                                       0
                              t-Bu ,N       CI
                                                     0    ^O       OTs
   with an anhydrous fluoride species associated with an ammonium salt; (b) heating the
 5 mixture of (a); (c) cooling the heated mixture; (d) adding H 2 0 to the cooled mixture; (e)
   purifying the mixture from the hydrated mixture of (d) using HPLC with an H 20/MeCN
   eluent; and (f) diluting the eluent with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof.
            In some embodiments, step (b) comprises heating the mixture to a temperature
   between 50'C and 250C. In some embodiments, step (b) comprises heating the mixture
10 for less than 5 minutes, less than 10 minutes, less than 20, minutes, or less than 30
   minutes.
            In some embodiments, the method further comprises (g) contacting the diluted
   eluent of (f) with a C18 resin; (h) washing the contacted C 18 resin with a solution of
   ascorbic acid or a salt thereof; (i) eluting
                                        0
                               t-Bu N        CI
15
   from the C18 resin with absolute ETOH; and (j) diluting the eluent of (i) with a solution
   or ascorbic acid or a salt thereof.
            In some embodiments, the method further comprises (k) aseptically filtering the
   diluted eluent of (j), and (1) optionally, determining the presence of
                                        0
                               t-BuN         CI
20
   in a sample of the aseptic filtrate of (k).

                                                 - 18
            In other aspects, the invention provides imaging agents made by any of the
   preceding methods.
            Thus, in one aspect, the invention provides an imaging agent comprising formula:
                                        0
                                t-BuN
                                             C1
                                                        /    ON,.S18F
 5 wherein the imaging agent is manufactured by (a) contacting a tosylate precursor
   comprising formula:
                                       0
                               t-Bu ,N      CI
                                                      N     O       OTs
   with an anhydrous fluoride species associated with an ammonium salt; (b) heating the
   mixture of (a); (c) cooling the heated mixture; (d) adding H20 to the cooled mixture; (e)
10 purifying the mixture from the hydrated mixture of (d) using HPLC with an H 20/MeCN
   eluent; and (f) diluting the eluent with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof.
            In some embodiments, step (b) comprises heating the mixture to a temperature
   between 50'C and 250C. In some embodiments, step (b) comprises heating the mixture
   less than 5 minutes, less than 10 minutes, less than 20, minutes, or less than 30 minutes.
15          In some embodiments, the manufacturing further comprises (g) contacting the
   diluted eluent of (f) with a C18 resin; (h) washing the contacted C 18 resin with a solution
   of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof; (i) eluting
                                        0
                                t-Bu N       CI
                                      NO
   from the C18 resin with absolute ETOH; and () diluting the eluent of (i) with a solution
20 of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof.
            In some embodiments, the manufacturing further comprises: (k) aseptically
   filtering the diluted eluent of (), and (1) optionally, determining the presence of

                                                  -19
                                        0
                               t-BuN          CI
   in a sample of the aseptic filtrate of (k).
           In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing a fluorinated
   compound, comprising reacting, in the presence of a carbonate or bicarbonate, (i) a
 5 precursor of the fluorinated compound comprising an alkoxyalkyl group substituted with
   a halide or a sulfonate-containing group, with (ii) a salt comprising a fluoride species and
   weakly coordinating cation.
           In some embodiments, the alkoxyalkyl group is substituted with a sulfonate
   containing group. In some embodiments, the sulfonate-containing group is mesylate,
10 tosylate, triflate or 1,2-cyclic sulfate. In some embodiments, the sulfonate-containing
   group is tosylate. In some embodiments, the weakly coordinating cation is a
   tetraalkylammonium cation. In some embodiments, the fluoride species is enriched for
   18F isotope.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing a fluorinated
15 compound comprising reacting, in the presence of a carbonate or bicarbonate, (i) a
   precursor of the fluorinated compound comprising an alkoxyalkyl substituted with a
   halide or a sulfonate-containing group, with (ii) an 18F isotope.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing a fluorinated
   compound, comprising reacting (i) a precursor of the fluorinated compound comprising
20 an alkoxyalkyl substituted with a halide or a sulfonate-containing group, with (ii) an 18F
   isotope, in the presence of a tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate or tetraalkylammonium
   carbonate. In some embodiments, the reaction is carried out in the presence of a
   tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate.
    In some embodiments, the tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate is tetraethylammonium
25 bicarbonate, tetrabutylammonium bicarbonate, or tetrahexylammonium bicarbonate.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a method for 1 8F-labeling comprising
   formula:
                                                 0
                                           R           R2
                                              N
                                                      0O
                                                                 R

                                               - 20
   wherein R is -lower alkyl-sulfonate, R' is an C1-C10 alkyl, and R2 is H or a halogen,
   comprising reacting the compound with     18F  in the presence of a tetraalkylammonium
   bicarbonate or tetraalkylammonium carbonate. In some embodiments, R is
   (CH 2 )O(CH 2)n-sulfonate-containing group, wherein n is an integer from 1 to 5. In some
 5 embodiments, the sulfonate-containing group is mesylate, tosylate, triflate, or 1,2-cyclic
   sulfate. In some embodiments, R 2 is a halogen. In some embodiments, R 2 is chloride.
   In some embodiments, R' is methyl, ethyl, propyl or butyl. In some embodiments, R' is
   t-butyl. In some embodiments, R is -CH 2-0-CH2-CH 2-tosylate, R' is t-butyl and R2 is
   chloride.
10         In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing a precursor to
   an imaging agent, comprising reacting a compound comprising formula (V):
                                         0
                                      R
                                                            0
                                                         0-. (V),
   wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted; R' is alkyl, optionally
   substituted; and R2 is hydrogen or halide; with a nucleophile or a radical species to
15 produce a compound comprising formula (VI):
                                     0
                                           W                  OH
                                                 W       O-0     (VI).
           In some embodiments, the nucleophile is a hydride ion. In some embodiments,
   the hydride ion is generated from diisobutylaluminum hydride (DIBAL-H). In some
   embodiments, the radical species is Ho.
20         In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (V) wherein W is
   OCH 2 - is synthesized by etherification of precursor compounds comprising formulae
   (Va) and (Vb):
                            0
                                  OH
                       R"         R2               HO
                          N       C1    (Va) and                  0       (Vb)
   to form a product comprising formula:

                                                 - 21
                                          0
                                    RN          R2
                                        N
                                                O
                                                           -0j
   In some embodiments, R' is t-butyl and R 2 is Cl.
            In some embodiments, etherification comprises reacting the precursor compounds
   in the presence of a base. In some embodiments, the base comprises a carbonate ion. In
 5 some embodiments, the base comprises a hydroxide ion. In some embodiments, the base
   is sodium hydroxide or tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide. In some embodiments, the
   etherification reaction comprises exposure to sodium hydroxide and benzyl
   triethylammonium chloride.
            In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (Vb) is produced by
10 exposing the compound comprising formula:
                                                   0
                                            H3CO
                                                               0,
   to a reducing agent. In some embodiments, the reducing agent is lithium aluminum
   hydride or lithium borohydride. In some embodiments, the reducing agent is lithium
   aluminum hydride.
15          In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula:
                                                   0
                                            H3 CO
                                                         /        0
                                                               Oj
   is produced by reacting methyl 4-formyl benzoate with ethylene glycol in the presence of
   an acid.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method for forming a sulfonate
20 containing precursor of an imaging agent, comprising reacting a compound comprising
   formula:
                                        0
                                tBuN         CI
                                     N-      0                        OH
                                                      -0       0    )

                                                    - 22
   with a sulfonate-containing species to form a product comprising a sulfonate-containing
   precursor of an imaging agent.
            In some embodiments, the sulfonate-containing group is mesylate, tosylate, or
   triflate. In some embodiments, the sulfonate-containing group is tosylate. In some
 5 embodiments, the sulfonate-containing precursor of an imaging agent comprising the
   formula:
                                        0
                                tBu',N         CI
                                     N-..      0                  OTs
                                                         O0,T
            In some cases, the sulfonate-containing precursor is reacted with an imaging
   moiety to form an imaging agent.
10          In some embodiments, the imaging moiety is a radioisotope. In some
   embodiments, the imaging moiety is IC, "N, 1F, 123 1,25 99mTc, 95Tc, mIn,       62Cu, 14Cu,
   67
      Ga, or 68Ga. In some embodiments, the imaging moiety is 18F.
            In some embodiments, the imaging agent has the structure:
                                          0
                                 tBu'N           CI
                                            N10                   18
                                                                    F
                                                          O     0
15          In another aspect, the invention provides a method for synthesizing an imaging
   agent, comprising reacting precursor compounds comprising formulae:
                                     0
                            tBuN            CI                        Br
                                            OH and      MeOY,
   via an etherification reaction to form a first compound comprising the formula:
                                           0
                                  tBu, N
                                                 CI
                                       N-.
                                                 0 *'
                                                                OCH 3
                                                              0
20 exposing the first compound to a reducing agent to form a second compound comprising
   a benzylic alcohol; treating the second compound with phosphorus tribromide to form a

                                                  - 23
   third compound comprising a benzylic bromide; reacting the third compound with
   ethylene glycol to produce a fourth compound comprising the formula:
                                     0
                            tBuN           CI
                                  N-.      0                OH
                                                        0       ;and
   reacting the fourth compound with a sulfonate-containing species to form a product
 5 comprising a sulfonate-containing precursor of an imaging agent. In some cases, the
   method further comprises reacting the sulfonate-containing precursor of an imaging
   agent with an imaging moiety to form the imaging agent.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a compound having the structure:
                                       0
                               tBu',N        CI
                                             O
                                                               OTs
10 wherein the compound is synthesized using any of the preceding methods.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a compound comprising formula:
                                           0
                                   tBu'N         CI
                                                          - Br
           In another aspect, the invention provides a compound comprising formula:
                                          0
                                  tBu,           CI
                                                       N-OO H
15         In another aspect, the invention provides a compound comprising formula:
                                         0
                                 tBu',N
                                                CI
                                       N
                                               0
                                                       N-OO C H
                                                                3
                                                         0
           In another aspect, the invention provides a compound comprising formula:

                                                 -24
                                         0
                                  tBuN          CI
                                       Ns
                                           N
                                                                0
                                                             0
           In another aspect, the invention provides a method of imaging a subject,
   comprising administering to a subject a first dose of imaging agent comprising the
 5 formula:
                                       0
                               t-BuN
                                             CI
                                    N
                                                  O
                                                "
                                                             ON,/,18F
   in an amount between about 1 mCi and about 4 mCi; acquiring at least one first image of
   a portion of the subject; subjecting the subject to stress; administering to the subject
   undergoing stress a second dose of the imaging agent in an amount greater than the first
10 dose of the imaging agent by at least about 1.5 times the first dose of the imaging agent;
   and acquiring at least one second image of the portion of the subject.
           In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent is administered
   within less than about 48 hours, 24 hours, 18 hours, 12 hours, 6 hours, 5 hours, 4 hours, 3
   hours, 2 hours, 1 hour, 30 minutes, or 15 minutes after acquiring the at least one first
15 image. In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent is at least 2.0 times
   greater than the first dose of the imaging agent. In some embodiments, the first image is
   obtained during an image acquisition period between 1 and 20 minutes. In some
   embodiments, the second image is obtained during an image acquisition period between
   1 and 20 minutes. In some embodiments, the portion of the subject is at least a portion
20 of the cardiovascular system. In some embodiments, the portion of the cardiovascular
   system is at least a portion of the heart. In some embodiments, the acquiring employs
   positron emission tomography.
           In some embodiments, the method further comprises determining the presence or
   absence of a cardiovascular disease or condition in the subject. In some embodiments,
25 the cardiovascular disease is coronary artery disease or myocardial ischemia.

                                               - 25
           In some embodiments, the imaging agent is administered as a formulation
   comprising water, less than about 5% ethanol, and less than about 50 mg/mL sodium
   ascorbate. In some embodiments, the formulation comprising the imaging agent is
   administered via an intravenous bolus injection. In some embodiments, the stress is
 5 induced by exercising the subject. In some embodiments, the second dose of the
   imaging agent is administered during the exercise.
           In some embodiments, the first dose of the imaging agent is between about 1.0
   mCi to about 2.5 mCi. In some embodiments, the first dose of the imaging agent is
   between about 1.7 mCi to about 2.0 mCi. In some embodiments, the first dose of the
10 imaging agent is between about 2.5 to about 3.0 mCi.
           In some embodiments, the wait time between acquiring at least one first image of
   a portion of the subject and administering to the subject a second dose of the imaging
   agent is 60 minutes. In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent is
   administered in an amount that is at least 2.5, or at least 3.0 times greater than the first
15 dose of the imaging agent. In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent
   is administered in an amount between 2.5 and about 5.0, or 2.5 and 4.0, or 3.0 and 4.0
   time greater, or between 3.0 and 5.0 times greater than the first dose of the imaging
   agent. In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent is between about 8.6
   mCi and about 9.0 mCi, or between about 8.6 mCi and about 9.5 mCi, or between about
20 9.0 to about 9.5 mCi.
           In some embodiments, the stress is pharmacological stress. In some
   embodiments, the pharmacological stress is induced by administering a pharmacological
   stress agent to the subject. In some embodiments, the pharmacological stress agent is a
   vasodilator. In some embodiments, the vasodilator is adenosine. In some embodiments,
25 the second dose of the imaging agent is administered after the subject has been
   administered the pharmacological stress agent. In some embodiments, the second dose
   of the imaging agent is administered when the subject is at peak vasodilation from the
   pharmacological stress agent.
           In some embodiments, the first dose of the imaging agent is between about 2.0
30 mCi to about 3.5 mCi. In some embodiments, the first dose of the imaging agent is
   between about 2.4 mCi to about 3.0 mCi or between about 2.4 mCi to about 2.9 mCi. In
   some embodiments, the first dose of the imaging agent is between about 2.5 mCi to
   about 3.0 mCi or between about 2.5 mCi and about 3.5 mCi.

                                                  - 26
           In some embodiments, the wait time between acquiring at least one first image of
   a portion of the subject and administering to the subject a second dose of the imaging
   agent is 30 minutes. In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent is
   administered in an amount at least 2.0 times greater than the first dose of the imaging
 5 agent. In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent is administered in an
   amount that is between 2 to 3 times greater than the first dose of the imaging agent,
   including 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, or 2.9 times greater.
           In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent is between about 5.7
   mCi and about 6.2 mCi. In some embodiments, the second dose of the imaging agent is
10 between about 6.0 mCi and about 6.5 mCi or between about 5.7 mCi and about 6.5 mCi.
   In some embodiments, the total of the first and second dose of the imaging agent does
   not exceed about 14 mCi.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a syringe comprising a composition
   comprising the imaging agent comprises the formula:
                                       0
                              t-BuN
                                             CI
                                    N
                                              0 0
15                                                            OsNs,18F,
   wherein the syringe adsorbs less than 20%, 19%, 18%, 17%, 16%, 15%, 14%, 13,%
   12%, 11%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 7 %, 6%, 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 1%, or 0.5% of the imaging agent.
   In some cases, the syringe adsorbs between about 1% and about 20%, or between about
   50% and about 15%, or between about 1% and about 150%, or between 2% and about 10%,
20 or between about 5% and about 20%.
           In some embodiments, the syringe comprises a plunger that adsorbs less than
   20%, 19%, 18%, 17%, 16%, 15%, 14%, 13 ,% 1 2 %, 11%,10%,9%,8,               7 %, 6 %, 5%,
   4%, 3 %, 2 %, 1%, or 0.50% of the imaging agent. In some embodiments, the syringe
   comprises a plunger that is not rubber-tipped. In some embodiments, the syringe is a
25 latex-free syringe. In some embodiments, the syringe comprises no rubber, and no
   silicon lubricants. In some embodiments, the syringe is a non-reactive syringe. In some
   cases, the syringe adsorbs between about 1% and about 2 0%, or between about 50%and
   about 15%, or between about 1% and about 15%, or between 2 % and about 10%, or
   between about 5% and about 20%.

                                                - 27
            In some embodiments, the syringe further comprises sodium ascorbate, ethanol,
   and water. In some embodiments, the imaging agent is in a solution comprising less than
   4% ethanol and less than 50 mg/mL sodium ascorbate in water.
            In some embodiments, the imaging agent is present in the syringe in a dose
 5 between about 1.5 and about 14 mCi.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of imaging a subject,
   comprising subjecting a subject to stress; administering to the subject a first dose of an
   imaging agent comprising the formula:
                                       0
                               t-BuN
                                            CI
                                     N
                                             0 0
                                                            O ON 18F
10 in an amount between about mCi and about 4 mCi; acquiring at least one first image of
   a portion of the subject; administering to the subject a second dose of the imaging agent
   in an amount greater than the first dose of the imaging agent; and acquiring at least one
   second image of the portion of the subject.
            In some embodiments, the amount of the second dose is more than 1.5 times the
15 amount of the first dose.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of imaging a subject,
   comprising subjecting a subject to stress; administering to the subject a dose of an
   imaging agent comprising formula:
                                       0
                               t-BuN
                                            C1
                                     N
                                                            Osse-18F
20                                                          0
   in an amount less 20 mCi; and acquiring at least one first   image of a portion of the
                                                                   hF
   subject.
            In some embodiments, the amount of the dose is less than 14 mCi. In some
   embodiments, the amount of the dose is between 1 mCi and 4 mCi.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a cassette for the preparation of an
25 imaging agent comprising formula:

                                                -28
                                         0
                               t-BuN
                                             CI
                                      N
                                              0 0
                                                            ON      18F
   comprising: (i) a vessel containing an imaging agent precursor comprising formula:
                                        0
                              t-Bu , N
                                            C1
                                              No
                                                  0 "      O"'      OTs
   and (ii) a conduit for adding a source of 18F.
 5          In another aspect, the invention provides an automated reaction system,
   comprising:
   the foregoing cassette. In another aspect, the invention provides an apparatus for
   synthesizing an imaging agent comprising a linear arrangement of a plurality of stopcock
   manifolds connected one or more of the components selected from the group consisting
10 of a [ 180]H 20 recovery system, gas inlet, reservoir with solution of imaging agent
   precursor, vial, anion exchange cartridge, C-18 cartridge, syringe, solvent reservoir,
   reaction vessel, HPLC system, collection vessel, reservoir for solution of ascorbic acid or
   salt thereof, and exhaust outlet..
            In some embodiments, the apparatus further comprising tubing. In some
15 embodiment, the apparatus further comprising an imaging agent synthesis module,
   wherein the apparatus is fluidically connected to the apparatus. In some embodiments,
   the apparatus is capable of carrying out the method as described herein. In some
   embodiments, the apparatus is capable of preparing an imaging agent comprising
   formula:
                                        0
                              t-BuN
                                            CI
                                     N
                                              0 0
20                                                          Os4-18F.
            In some embodiments, the invention provides an apparatus comprising the
   components arranged as shown in Figure 8. In some cases, the components are arranged
   in the order: (1) gas inlet; (2) [ 180]H20 recovery system; (3) anion exchange cartridge;

                                                - 29
   (4) MeCN reservoir; (5) syringe; (6) reservoir with solution of imaging agent precursor; (7)
   reaction vessel; (8) HPLC system; (9) reservoir with solution of ascorbic acid or a salt
   thereof; (10) collection vessel; (11) ethanol reservoir; (12) vial with final product; (13)
   Sep-pack cartridge; (14) reservoir with solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof; (15)
 5 reaction vessel; and (16) exhaust outlet.
                                Brief Description of the Drawings
           Figure 1 shows an example of a nucleophilic [I 8F]-fluorination reaction using an
   imaging agent precursor and a fluoride source to form an imaging agent.
10         Figure 2 shows various reaction pathways of an imaging agent precursor during a
   nucleophilic fluorination reaction.
           Figure 3 shows an exemplary synthesis of an intermediate compound.
           Figure 4 shows an alternative synthesis of an intermediate compound.
           Figure 5 shows another alternative synthesis of an intermediate compound.
15         Figure 6 shows a flow chart describing a method for synthesizing an imaging
   agent.
           Figure 7 is a schematic representation of a system for synthesizing an imaging
   agent using a modified Explora GN synthesis module.
           Figure 8 is a schematic representation of a cassette, with associated columns and
20 reagents for synthesizing an imaging agent using a modified GE-Tracerlab-MX synthesis
   module.
           Figure 9 includes (a) a graph illustrating the changes in product distribution as a
   function of molar concentration of bicarbonate salt, (b) a graph illustrating the product
   distribution as a function of reaction time, and (c) a graph illustrating the changes in
25 product distribution as a function of molar concentration of imaging agent precursor.
           Figure 10 illustrates non-limiting examples of imaging agents which may be
   prepared using the fluorination methods as described herein, in some embodiments.
           Figure 11 shows whole body coronal sections at the level of the myocardium
   from a representative human subject at different time points after administration of
30 imaging agent 1.
           Figure 12 shows representative cardiac images of imaging agent 1 in control and
   chronic myocardial infarct (MI) rabbits.

                                               - 30
            Figure 13 shows a plot of reader's scores versus percentage decreases from the
   maximum value for rest image data of a study following administration of imaging
   agent 1 injection to subjects, according to a non-limiting embodiment.
            Other aspects, embodiments, and features of the invention will become apparent
 5 from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the
   accompanying drawings. The accompanying figures are schematic and are not intended
   to be drawn to scale. For purposes of clarity, not every component is labeled in every
   figure, nor is every component of each embodiment of the invention shown where
   illustration is not necessary to allow those of ordinary skill in the art to understand the
10 invention. All patent applications and patents incorporated herein by reference are
   incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict, the present specification,
   including definitions, will control.
                Detailed Description of Certain Embodiments of the Invention
15          The present invention generally relates to systems, compositions, cassettes,
   methods, and apparatuses for the synthesis of imaging agents and precursors thereof. In
   some aspects the invention relates to imaging agents synthesized using methods
   described herein.
            In some embodiments, the present invention relates to methods for synthesizing
20 an imaging agent, for example, by reacting an imaging agent precursor with a source of
   an imaging moiety. As described herein, in some cases, the method involves the use of
   one or more additives (e.g., salts) that may facilitate a chemical reaction. The methods
   may exhibit improved yields and may allow for the widespread synthesis of imaging
   agents, including imaging agents comprising a radioisotope (e.g.,      18F). The imaging
25 agents may be useful as sensors, diagnostic tools, and the like. Synthetic methods for
   preparing an imaging agent have also been designed to use an automated synthesis
   system to prepare and purify imaging agents that comprise a radioisotope. In some
   aspects, the invention allows radiolabeled imaging agents to be made using a
   nucleophilic reaction system, including, but not limited to, the Explora GN or RN
30 synthesis system (Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc.), GE-Tracerlab-MX synthesis
   system (GE Healthcare), Eckert & Zeigler Modular-Lab Synthesis system, etc., which
   are commonly available at PET manufacturing facilities (PMF).

                                                -31
            In some embodiments, the present invention provides methods for synthesizing
   an imaging agent precursor, wherein the imaging agent precursor is reacted with a source
   of an imaging moiety to form the imaging agent. As will be understood by those of
   ordinary skill in the art, it is advantageous to utilize methods which involve high
 5 yielding reactions and a relatively low number of synthetic and/or purification steps.
   Accordingly, many of the methods provided herein for synthesizing an imaging agent
   precursor provide the imaging agent precursor in fewer steps than previously reported,
   with greater ease of synthesis and/or at a higher yield.
            In some embodiments, the present invention provides methods of imaging,
10 including methods of imaging in a subject that includes administering a composition or
   formulation (e.g., that comprises imaging agent 1, as described herein) to the subject by
   injection, infusion, or any method of administration, and imaging a region of the subject
   that is of interest. Regions of interest may include, but are not limited to, the heart,
   cardiovascular system, cardiac vessels, blood vessels (e.g., arteries, veins), brain, and
15 other organs. A parameter of interest, such as blood flow, cardiac wall motion, or
   perfusion, can be imaged and detected using methods and/or systems of the invention. In
   some cases, methods for evaluating perfusion, including myocardial perfusion, are
   provided.
            As used herein, the term "imaging agent" refers to any species that includes at
20 least one atom, or group of atoms, that may generate a detectable signal itself, or upon
   exposure to an external source of energy (e.g., electromagnetic radiation, ultrasound,
   etc.). Typically, the imaging agent may be administered to a subject in order to provide
   information relating to at least a portion of the subject (e.g., human). In some cases, an
   imaging agent may be used to highlight a specific area of a subject, rendering organs,
25 blood vessels, tissues, and/or other portions more detectable and more clearly imaged.
   By increasing the detectability and/or image quality of the object being studied, the
   presence and extent of disease and/or injury can be determined. The imaging agent may
   include a radioisotope for nuclear medicine imaging. A non-liming example of an
   imaging agent, also referred herein as imaging agent 1, comprises the formula:
                                        0
                                t-Bu N       CI
30                                    N

                                               -  32
             As used herein, an "imaging moiety" refers to an atom or group of atoms that is
   capable of producing a detectable signal itself or upon exposure to an external source of
   energy (e.g., imaging agents comprising imaging moieties may allow for the detection,
   imaging, and/or monitoring of the presence and/or progression of a condition),
 5 pathological disorder, and/or disease. Nuclear medicine imaging agents can include            C,
    1N, 1F, 123 1,25   99mTc, 95Tc,  I"In, 2Cu, 4Cu, "Ga, and 6Ga as the imaging moiety. In
   some embodiments, the imaging moiety is       18F.  Imaging agents based on     18
                                                                                      F have been
   used for imaging hypoxia and cancer (Drugs of the Future 2002, 27, 655-667).
             In some embodiments, a compound (e.g., an imaging agent, a fluoride species)
10 may be isotopically-enriched with fluorine-18. "Isotopically-enriched" refers to a
   composition containing isotopes of an element such that the resultant isotopic
   composition is other than the natural isotopic composition of that element. With regard
   to the compounds provided herein, when a particular atomic position is designated as         18F,
   it is to be understood that the abundance of   18F at that position is substantially greater
15 than the natural abundance of 18F, which is essentially zero. In some embodiments, a
   fluorine designated as   18F may have a minimum isotopic enrichment factor of about
   0.01%, about 0.05%, about 0.1%, about 0.2%, about 0.3%, about 0.4%, about 0.5%,
   about 0.750%, about 1%, about 2%, about 30%, about 4%, about 50%, about 10%, about
   15%, about 20%, about 3 0%, about 4 0%, about 50%, about 60%, about 7 0%, about 80%,
20 about 90%, about 95%, or greater. The isotopic enrichment of the compounds provided
   herein can be determined using conventional analytical methods known to one of
   ordinary skill in the art, including mass spectrometry and HPLC.
   Exemplary Methods for Synthesizing Imaging Agents
25           The present invention provides methods for synthesizing imaging agents. In
   some cases, the imaging agent is formed by reacting an imaging agent precursor with an
   imaging moiety. In certain embodiments, a method involves reacting between an
   imaging agent precursor comprising a leaving group with a source of an imaging moiety
   (e.g., a fluoride species).
30           For example, the imaging moiety replaces the leaving group via a substitution
   reaction, such as an SN 2 or SN1 reaction. That is, during the reaction an imaging moiety
   replaces the leaving group, thereby producing the imaging agent.

                                                - 33
            The methods described herein may be used for the synthesis of a wide variety of
   imaging agents from an imaging agent precursor. Generally, the imaging agent
   precursor may include at least one leaving group that may be displaced by an imaging
   moiety, such as an 18F species. Imaging agent precursors may be synthesized using
 5 methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art and as described below.
            In some embodiments, the imaging agent precursor comprises formula (I):
                                 0
                         R29Q
                              N            R2 1 R22     R23
                                      N                         R24
                                                    n
                                 R27                                 /K
                                                         25        /    L
                                                                  M       (j),
   wherein:
            J is selected from the group consisting of N(R28), S, 0, C(=0), C(=0)O,
10 NHCH 2CH 20, a bond, and C(=0)N(R 27);
            when present, K is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group, alkyloxy optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, aryl optionally substituted with a leaving group, C1 -C6 alkyl optionally
   substituted with a leaving group, heteroaryl optionally substituted with a leaving group,
15 and a leaving group;
            when present, L is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group, alkyloxy optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, aryl optionally substituted with a leaving group, C 1-C6 alkyl optionally
   substituted with a leaving group, heteroaryl optionally substituted with a leaving group,
20 and a leaving group;
            M is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally
   substituted with a leaving group, alkyloxy optionally substituted with a leaving group,
   aryl optionally substituted with a leaving group, CI-C 6 alkyl optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, heteroaryl optionally substituted with a leaving group, and a leaving
25 group; or
            L and M, together with the atom to which they are attached, may form a three-,
   four-, five-, or six-membered carbocyclic ring;

                                                 - 34
           Q is halo  or haloalkyl;
           n is 0, 1, 2, or 3;
           R21, R22 , R 27, and R28 are independently selected from hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group, and a leaving group;
 5         R23, R24 , R25, and R26 are independently selected from hydrogen, halogen,
   hydroxyl, alkyloxy, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, and a
   leaving group;
           R29 is C1-C6 alkyl optionally   substituted with a leaving group; and
           Y is selected from the group consisting of a bond, carbon, and oxygen; provided
10 that when Y is a bond, K and L are absent, and M is selected from the group consisting
   of aryl optionally substituted with a leaving group and heteroaryl optionally substituted
   with a leaving group; and provided that when Y is oxygen, K and L are absent, and M is
   selected from hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, aryl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group, C1 -C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a
15 leaving group, and heteroaryl optionally substituted with a leaving group;
           provided that at least one leaving group is present in formula (I).
           In some embodiments, a method of the present invention comprises preparing an
   imaging agent comprising formula (II):
                                  0
                         R29Q
                               N            R2 1 R2 2    R23
                                   N2
                                                                 R 24
                                                      n
                                  R27                                 /K
                                                         R25/            L
                                                                   M       (jj)
20 wherein:
           J is selected from the group consisting of N(R 28), S, 0, C(=0), C(=0)O,
   NHCH 2CH 20, a bond, and C(=O)N(R 27);
           when present, K is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, alkyloxy optionally substituted with an
25 imaging moiety, aryl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, C1 -C6 alkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, heteroaryl optionally substituted with an
   imaging moiety, and an imaging moiety;

                                                 - 35
            when present, L is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, alkyloxy optionally substituted with an
   imaging moiety, aryl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, C1 -C6 alkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, heteroaryl optionally substituted with an
 5 imaging moiety, and an imaging moiety;
            M is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally
   substituted with an imaging moiety, alkyloxy optionally substituted with an imaging
   moiety, aryl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, C1 -C6 alkyl optionally
   substituted with an imaging moiety, heteroaryl optionally substituted with an imaging
10 moiety, and an imaging moiety; or
            L and M, together with the atom to which they are attached, may form a three-,
   four-, five-, or six-membered carbocyclic ring;
            Q is halo  or haloalkyl;
            n is 0, 1, 2, or 3;
15          R21, R22 , R27, and R28 are independently selected from hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, and an imaging moiety;
            R23, R24 , R 25, and R26 are independently selected from hydrogen, halogen,
   hydroxyl, alkyloxy, C 1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, and an
   imaging moiety;
20          R 29 is C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety; and
            Y is selected from the group consisting of a bond, carbon, and oxygen; provided
   that when Y is a bond, K and L are absent, and M is selected from the group consisting
   of aryl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety and heteroaryl optionally
   substituted with an imaging moiety; and provided that when Y is oxygen, K and L are
25 absent, and M is selected from hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with an
   imaging moiety, aryl optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, C1 -C6 alkyl
   optionally substituted with an imaging moiety, and heteroaryl optionally substituted with
   an imaging moiety;
            provided that at least one imaging moiety is present in formula (II). That is, the
30 imaging agent comprising formula (II) is formed from an imaging agent precursor
   comprising formula (I), wherein a leaving group of the imaging agent precursor
   comprising formula (I) is replaced by an imaging moiety. In some embodiments, the
   imaging moiety is      18F.

                                                  - 36
           In some cases, J is selected from N(R2), S, 0, C(=0), C(=0)O, NHCH2 CH2 O, a
   bond, or C(=O)N(R 27). In some cases when present, K is selected from hydrogen,
   alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, alkyloxy, aryl, C1 -C6 alkyl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group, heteroaryl, and a leaving group. In some
 5 cases, when present, L is selected from hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with
   a leaving group, alkyloxy, aryl, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group,
   heteroaryl, and a leaving group. In some case, M is selected from hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl
   optionally substituted with a leaving group, alkyloxy, aryl, C1-C6 alkyl optionally
   substituted with a leaving group, heteroaryl, and a leaving group. In some cases, L and
10 M, together with the atom to which they are attached, form a three- or four-membered
   carbocyclic ring. In some cases Q is halo or haloalkyl. In some cases, n is 0, 1, 2, or 3.
   In some cases, R21 , R 22 , R,2 R24,
                                    24        2627
                                        R,25 R26 , and R are independently selected from
   hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, and a leaving group.
   In some cases R29 is C 1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group. In some
15 cases, Y is selected from a bond, carbon, and oxygen; provided that when Y is a bond, K
   and L are absent and M is selected from aryl and heteroaryl; and provided that when Y is
   oxygen, K and L are absent and M is selected from hydrogen, alkoxyalkyl optionally
   substituted with a leaving group, aryl, C1 -C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving
   group, and heteroaryl.
20         In some cases, J is 0. In some cases R29 is methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, i-propyl, n
   butyl, i-butyl, or t-butyl, each may be optionally substituted with a leaving group. In
   certain embodiment, R2 9 is t-butyl. In some cases, Q is chloro. In some cases, all of R2 1
   R22, R23 , R2, R25, R26 , and R27 are hydrogen. In some cases, Y is carbon, K and L are
   hydrogen, and M is alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, alkyloxy
25 optionally substituted with a leaving group, aryl optionally substituted with a leaving
   group, C1-C6 alkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group, heteroaryl optionally
   substituted with a leaving group, or a leaving group. In some cases, Y is carbon, K and
   L are hydrogen, and M is alkyloxy optionally substituted with a leaving group.
           In some embodiments, the imaging agent precursor comprises the formula:
                                           0
                                        N           21R
30                                                                     L

                                                 -37
   wherein R2', Ri2 , R't  Q, J, and n are as described herein, and L is a leaving group.
           In some embodiments, the imaging agent comprises the formula:
                                         0
                                   RzN'         Rz1R 22
                                      N     '
   wherein R2 , R'2, Ret Q,J,and n are as described herein, and I. isan imaging moiety.
 5         In some embodiments, the imaging agent precursor comprises the fouila:
                                          0
                                    I
                                   N                               L
   wherein R2 and Q are as described herein, and L is a leaving group.
           In some embodiments, the imaging agent comprises the formula:
                               Ra N
                                  N
                                                                  Im
10 wherein R2 and    Q are as described herein, and Tm   is an imaging moiety.
           In one set ofembodiments. the imaging agent precursor comprises the formula:
                                      0
                             I-Bu' N:
                                    I         C
                                   NI
   herein referred to as imaging agent precursor I (see Figure 1)
           In some cases, the imaging agent comprises the formula:
                                       0
                             t-BuN
15
   herein referred to as imaging agent I (see Figure 1).

                                               - 38
           Other non-limiting examples of imaging agents that may be prepared using a
   fluorination methods of the present invention are shown in Figure 10. In some cases, the
   imaging agent precursor is not a salt.
           Various methods may be used to synthesize an imaging agent precursor of the
 5 formula (I), including an etherification reaction (e.g., Mitsonobu reaction) between two
   alcohols, or between a phenol and an alcohol. In some cases, a leaving group may be
   installed by conversion of a hydroxyl group into a tosylate group or other leaving group,
   for example, by reaction with p-toluenesulfonate chloride in the presence of a base (e.g.,
   DMAP). Additional methods for the synthesis of an imaging agent having the structure
10 comprising formula (II) or an imaging agent precursor having the structure comprising
   formula (I) are described in International Publication No. W02005/079391, the contents
   of which are incorporated herein by reference.
           In some embodiments, a method for synthesizing an imaging agent comprises
   contacting an imaging agent precursor (e.g., a compound comprising formula (I)) with a
15 fluoride species and an ammonium salt under conditions that result in the fluoride
   species replacing the leaving group to produce an imaging agent (e.g., a compound
   comprising formula (II)) comprising the fluorine species wherein the molar ratio of
   ammonium salt to imaging agent precursor is less than about 1.5:1, or about 1:1 or less
   (or any ratio described herein).
20         In some embodiments, a method for synthesizing an imaging agent comprises
   contacting an imaging agent precursor (e.g., a compound comprising formula (I)) with a
   fluoride species and a bicarbonate salt under conditions that result in the fluoride species
   replacing the leaving group to produce an imaging agent (e.g., a compound comprising
   formula (II)) comprising the fluorine species, wherein the molar ratio of bicarbonate salt
25 to imaging agent precursor is less than about 1.5:1, or is about 1:1 or less (or any ratio
   described herein).
           In some embodiments, a method for synthesizing an imaging agent comprises
   contacting an imaging agent precursor (e.g., a compound comprising formula (I)) with a
   fluoride species under conditions that result in the fluoride species replacing the leaving
30 group to produce an imaging agent (e.g., a compound comprising formula (II))
   comprising the fluorine species, wherein the contacting is performed at a pH below 7.
           In some embodiments, a method for 18F-labeling a compound comprising the
   formula:

                                                 - 39
                                             0
                                          RN      OR"a
                                                  R2
           wherein:
           R is alkyl, optionally substituted;
           R2 is hydrogen or halogen; and
 5         R3 is alkyl substituted with a sulfonate-containing group, alkoxy substituted with
   a sulfonate-containing group, or alkoxyalkyl substituted with a sulfonate-containing
   group, comprises reacting the compound with an       18F species in the presence of an
   ammonium salt or a bicarbonate salt to form a product comprising the        18F species.
           In some embodiments, a method for manufacturing an imaging agent comprising
10 the formula:
                                        0
                              t-BuN           CI
                                      'CI
                                    N         O0
                                                            O        F,
   comprises
           (a) contacting a tosylate precursor comprising the formula:
                                        0
                              t-Bu',N        CI
                                    NO
                                                   0 e"'O'**% OTs
15 with a fluoride species associated with an ammonium salt;
           (b) heating the mixture of (a);
           (c) cooling the heated mixture;
           (d) adding H20 to the cooled mixture;
           (e) purifying the mixture from the hydrated mixture of (d) using HPLC with an
20 H2 0/MeCN eluent; and
           (f) diluting the eluent with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof.
   In some cases, step (b) comprises heating the mixture to a temperature between 50 0 C
   and 250 0C. In some cases, the heating step (b) comprises heating the mixture for less
   than 5 minutes, less than 10 minutes, less than 20, minutes, or less than 30 minutes. In
25 some cases, the method further comprises:

                                                 - 40
           (g) contacting the diluted eluent of (f) with a C18 resin;
           (h) washing the contacted C 18 resin with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt
   thereof;
           (i) eluting
                                        0
                                t-BuN         CI
 5                                   N        O 0"                   18F
   from the C18 resin with absolute ethanol; and
           (j) diluting the eluent of (i) with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof (e.g.,
   sodium salt).
   In some cases, the method further comprises
10         (k) aseptically filtering the diluted eluent of (j), and
           (1)optionally, determining the presence of
                                        0
                                t-BuN         CI
                                          N-   O
                                                                    18F
   in a sample of the aseptic filtrate of (k).
           In some embodiments, an imaging agent comprising the formula:
                                        0
                                t-Bu'N
                                              CI
15                                   N                           %OO 18F
   is manufactured by:
           (a) contacting a tosylate precursor comprising the formula:
                                       0
                               t-BuN         CI
                                                   0 " *O"'          OTs
   with an anhydrous fluoride species associated with an ammonium salt;
20         (b) heating the mixture of (a);
           (c) cooling the heated mixture;
           (d) adding H20 to the cooled mixture;

                                                  - 41
           (e) purifying the mixture from the hydrated mixture of (d) using HPLC with an
   H2 0/MeCN eluent; and
           (f) diluting the eluent with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof.
   In some cases, step (b) comprises heating the mixture to a temperature between 50 0 C
 5 and 250 0C. In some cases, the heating step (b) comprises heating the mixture less than 5
   minutes, less than 10 minutes, less than 20, minutes, or less than 30 minutes. In some
   cases, the manufacturing further comprises:
           (g) contacting the diluted eluent of (f) with a C18 resin;
           (h) washing the contacted C 18 resin with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt
10 thereof;
           (i) eluting
                                        0
                                t-BuN        CI
                                                              0
                                                              O N18F
   from the C18 resin with absolute ethanol; and
           (j) diluting the eluent of (i) with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof.
15 In some cases, the manufacturing further comprises:
           (k) aseptically filtering the diluted eluent of (j), and
           (1) optionally, determining the presence of
                                        0
                                t-Bu N       CI
                                     N         oo         /           8F
                                                              Og1
   in a sample of the aseptic filtrate of (k).
20         In some embodiments, a method for synthesizing a fluorinated compound
   comprises reacting, in the presences of a carbonate or bicarbonate ion, (i) a precursor of
   the fluorinated compound comprising an alkoxyalkyl group substituted with a halide or a
   sulfonate-containing group, with (ii) a salt comprising a fluoride species and weakly
   coordinating cation.
25         As used herein, the term "leaving group" is given its ordinary meaning in the art
   of synthetic organic chemistry and refers to an atom or a group capable of being
   displaced by a nucleophile. Examples of suitable leaving groups include, but are not
   limited to, halides (such as chloride, bromide, or iodide), alkoxycarbonyloxy,

                                                - 42
   aryloxycarbonyloxy, alkanesulfonyloxy, arenesulfonyloxy, alkyl-carbonyloxy (e.g.,
   acetoxy), arylcarbonyloxy, aryloxy, methoxy, N,O-dimethylhydroxylamino, pixyl,
   haloformates, and the like. In some cases, the leaving group is a sulfonic acid ester, such
   as toluenesulfonate (tosylate, TsO), methanesulfonate (mesylate, MsO), or
 5 trifluoromethanesulfonate (triflate, TfO). In some cases, the leaving group may be a
   brosylate, such as p-bromobenzenesulfonyl. In some cases, the leaving group may be a
   nosylate, such as 2-nitrobenzenesulfonyl. The leaving group may also be a
   phosphineoxide (e.g., formed during a Mitsunobu reaction) or an internal leaving group
   such as an epoxide or cyclic sulfate. In some embodiments, the leaving group is a
10 sulfonate-containing group. In some embodiments, the leaving group is a tosylate group.
            In certain embodiments, the invention provides methods of synthesizing an
   imaging agent comprising a halogen. For example, the method may involve a
   halogenation reaction. In some embodiments, methods for synthesizing an imaging
   agent comprising a fluoride (e.g., enriched with    18F) are provided. The method
15 comprises contacting an imaging agent precursor with a source of a fluoride under
   conditions that result in the fluoride replacing a leaving group of the precursor to
   produce an imaging agent comprising a fluoride species. In certain embodiments, the
   method involves a nucleophilic fluorination reaction. That is, an imaging agent
   precursor comprising a leaving group is reacted in the presence of a fluoride species,
20 whereby SN 2 or SNI displacement of the leaving group by the fluoride species produces
   the imaging agent. In some embodiments, the fluoride species is enriched with      18F.
   Figure 1 shows an illustrative example, where imaging agent precursor 1 is treated with
   an  18F species to produce imaging agent 1 via a substitution reaction.
            In some embodiments, one or more additives may be incorporated into the
25 reaction mixture of the imaging agent precursor and the fluoride species. The additive
   may, in some cases, facilitate reaction between the imaging agent precursor and the
   fluoride species and/or may aid in stabilizing the imaging agent. For example, the
   fluoride species may have relatively low reactivity (e.g., nucleophilicity), and addition of
   an additive may enhance the reactivity of the fluoride species. As an illustrative
30 embodiment, a fluorine species may be a negatively charged fluoride ion (e.g., an
   isotopically-enriched 18F ion), and an additive may be used to bind to any positively
   charged counterions present within the reaction mixture, thereby enhancing the reactivity

                                                 - 43
   of the fluoride ion. In some embodiments, the additives may decrease the rate of
   undesired side reactions, as described below.
            In some cases, the additive may be combined with the fluoride species prior to
   contact with the imaging agent precursor. For example, in certain embodiments a
 5 solution comprising the fluoride species and the additive is prepared, and the solution is
   added to the imaging agent precursor. In other embodiments, a solid comprising the
   fluoride species and the additive is prepared, and the solid is contacted with the imaging
   agent precursor. In certain embodiments, the fluoride species is adsorbed onto a solid
   support (e.g., an anion exchange column), and a solution comprising the additive is used
10 to elute the fluoride species from the solid support. The eluted solution is then contacted
   with the imaging agent precursor, or is concentrated to produce a solid, which is then
   contacted with the imaging agent precursor.
            In some embodiments, the additive is a bicarbonate salt. In certain embodiments,
   it has been discovered that substitution of a carbonate salt with a bicarbonate salt (such
15 as KHCO 3) results in considerable improvement of both fluorination efficiency and
   starting material integrity. As used herein, the term "bicarbonate salt" refers to a salt
   comprising a bicarbonate or hydrogen carbonate ion (HCO3- ion). The bicarbonate salt
   may be a metal bicarbonate, such as sodium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, potassium
   bicarbonate, magnesium bicarbonate, and the like. In certain embodiments, the
20 bicarbonate salt is potassium bicarbonate (KHCO 3 ). In some embodiments, the
   bicarbonate salt comprises a non-metal counterion, such as ammonium bicarbonate. For
   example, the bicarbonate salt may be a tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate salt having the
   formula, R4NHCO 3, wherein R is alkyl. In some embodiments, R may be a lower alkyl,
   such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, or the like. In certain embodiments,
25 the ammonium salt is Et 4NHCO 3 . In other embodiments, the salt is Me 4NHCO 3 , i
   Pr 4NHCO 3, n-Pr 4NHCO 3 , n-Bu 4NHCO 3 , i-Bu 4NHCO 3, or t-Bu 4NHCO 3 .
            As described further in Example 14, it is thought that reaction conditions which
   activate larger differential rates of fluorination would result in a more efficient and
   chemoselective process; that is, a decreased rate of hydrolysis or increased rate of
30 fluorination would result. The studies outlined herein revealed that although required for
   anion exchange, K2 C0 3 did little to enhance fluorination over baseline levels and served
   primarily a detrimental role in the fluorination reaction. However, in contrast, addition
   of KHCO 3 produced a marked increase in fluorination over the same concentration

                                                  - 44
   range, while decomposition pathways remained poorly differentiated. These facts,
   coupled with the observation that [I 8F]NaF exchange with tetraalkylammonium cations
   can directly produce a highly active nucleophilic fluoride source, led to investigation of a
   series of salts in an effort to identify related counterion affects that increase the rate of
 5 fluorination.
            A comprehensive screen of ammonium salts identified a dramatic enhancement
   of fluorination efficiency in the presence of bicarbonate anion (e.g., see Table 1); only
   modest dependency on size of the alkyl substituent was observed within the series
   methyl   +  ethyl -> butyl (e.g., Example 14).
10          Subsequent optimization of salt stoichiometry revealed that at levels as low as 25
   mol% of the tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate to an imaging agent precursor (e.g.,
   0.25:1) resulted in near complete conversion of the imaging agent precursor to the
   imaging agent; once again, unproductive consumption of starting material occurred with
   increasing base concentration revealing an optimum stoichiometry range for the
15 modified reaction conditions. Related studies directed toward determination of the
   optimal precursor concentration revealed a concentration threshold.
            This reagent combination also demonstrated rapid conversion and significantly
   improved chemoselectivity toward fluorination over the K 2CO 3/Kryptofix* 222 method.
   In fact, a more detailed evaluation of crude reaction mixtures revealed a dramatic
20 reduction in overall decomposition rates as evidenced by the absence of hydrolytic
   impurities (e.g., as described in Example 14); a result which may be attributed to a lower
   solution pH in the absence of Kryptofix* 222 (5-6 vs. 9-10).
            In some embodiments, the additive is a salt comprising a cation that forms a
   weakly coordinating salt with a fluoride species. As used herein, a "cation that forms a
25 weakly coordinating salt with a fluoride species" refers to a cation that renders a fluoride
   species reactive within a fluorination reaction. For example, the cation may not strongly
   bind to the fluoride species, allowing the fluoride species to act as a nucleophile during a
   nucleophilic fluorination reaction, Those of ordinary skill the art would be able to select
   an appropriate cation that would be suitable as a weakly coordinating counterion for a
30 fluoride species. For example, the cation may be have a relatively large atomic radius
   and/or may be a weak Lewis base. In some cases, the cation may be selected to be
   lipophilic. In some cases, the cation may comprise one or more alkyl groups. Examples
   of weakly coordinating cations include cesium ions, ammonium ions, and the like.

                                                - 45
   Examples of weakly coordinating cations include weakly coordinating salts of
   hexamethylpiperidindium, S(NMe 2) 3 , P(NMe 2 )4 , tetraaalkylphosphonium salts,
   tetraarylphosphonium salts, (e.g. tetraphenylphosphonium),
   hexakis(dimethylamino)diphosphazenium, tris(dimethylamino)sulfonium, etc.
 5          In some embodiments, the additive is an ammonium salt, i.e., a salt comprising a
   substituted or unsubstituted ammonium ion. In some cases, the ammonium ion is a
   weakly coordinating cation. In some cases, the ammonium salt has the formula, R 4NX,
   where each R can be the same or different and is alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, or
   heterocyclic, each optionally substituted, and X is a negatively charged counterion. In
10 some cases, R is alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, or heterocyclic, each optionally
   substituted. The ammonium salt may include a wide range of negatively charged
   counterions, including halides, carbonates, bicarbonates, and the like. Examples of
   ammonium salts include, but are not limited to, ammonium bicarbonate salts, ammonium
   hydroxide salts, ammonium acetate salts, ammonium lactate salts, ammonium
15 trifluoroacetate salts, ammonium methanesulfonate salts, ammonium p-toluenesulfonate
   salts, ammonium nitrate salts, ammonium halide salts (e.g., ammonium iodide salts),
   ammonium bisulfate salts, and the like.
            In one set of embodiments, the ammonium salt is a tetraalkylammonium salt,
   such as a tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate salt. For example, the ammonium salt may
20 have the formula, R 4NHCO 3 , wherein each R is independently alkyl. In some cases, R is
   optionally substituted. In some embodiments, the alkyl group is a lower C1-C6 alkyl
   group. In some embodiments, the tetraalkylammonium salt is a basic
   tetraalkylammonium salt.
            The salt additive (e.g., bicarbonate salt and/or ammonium salt) may be utilized in
25 the reaction such that the molar ratio of the salt additive to the imaging agent precursor is
   less than about 1.5:1. In some cases, the molar ratio is about 1.5:1 or less, about 1.4:1 or
   less, about 1.3:1 or less, about 1.25:1 or less, about 1.2:1 or less, about 1.1:1 or less,
   about 1:1 or less, about 0.75:1 or less, about 0.5:1 or less, about 0.25:1 or less, about
   0.1:1 or less, or about 0.05:1 or less. In some cases, the ratio is greater than about 0.05:1,
30 greater than about 0.01:1, or greater than about 0.25:1. In some embodiments, the molar
   ratio of salt additive to imaging agent precursor is about 0.5:1 to about 1:1, or about
   0.25:1 to about 1:1, or about 0.25:1 to about 0.75:1, about 1.49:1 to about 0.05:1, or

                                                - 46
   between about 1.4:1 to about 0.25:1, or between about 0.25:1 and about 1.4:1, or
   between about 0.25:1 and about 1.25:1.
           Without wishing to be bound by theory, the use of bicarbonate and ammonium
   salts may aid in decreasing the rate of competing reactions such as hydrolysis during
 5 nucleophilic fluorination of an imaging agent precursor.
           In some embodiments, the additive may be used in combination with a species
   capable of enhancing the reactivity of the fluoride species or otherwise facilitating
   conversion of the imaging agent precursor to the imaging agent. For example, the
   species may be a compound capable of chelating one or more ions (e.g., metal ions) that
10 may be present within the reaction mixture. Without wishing to be bound by theory, the
   species may be used to chelate a counterion to a fluoride species, such as a potassium
   ion, thereby increasing the reactivity (e.g., nucleophilicity) of the fluoride species. In
   certain embodiments, the additive is used in combination with a multidentate ligand,
   such as a crown ether or a cryptand that is capable of chelating a metal ion. The
15 multidentate ligand (e.g., cryptand) may be selected based on the metal ion to be
   chelated. The multidentate ligand may be, for example, 4,7,13,16,21,24-hexaoxa-1,10
   diazabicyclo[8.8.8]-hexacosane (e.g., Kryptofix* 222). Other cryptands will be known
   to those of ordinary skill in the art.
           Some embodiments may involve the use of a bicarbonate salt in combination
20 with 4,7,13,16,21,24-hexaoxa-1,10-diazabicyclo[8.8.8]-hexacosane.         In a specific
   embodiment, potassium bicarbonate may be used in combination with 4,7,13,16,21,24
   hexaoxa-1,10-diazabicyclo[8.8.8]-hexacosane.
           In another set of embodiments, it may be advantageous to utilize the methods
   described herein in the absence of a cryptand. The term "cryptand" is given its ordinary
25 meaning in the art and refers to a bi- or a polycyclic multidentate ligand for a cation. For
   example, the method may be carried out using an ammonium salt, in the absence of a
   cryptand (e.g., such as 4,7,13,16,21,24-hexaoxa-1,10-diazabicyclo[8.8.8]-hexacosane).
           In another set of embodiments, the method is performed in the absence of a
   carbonate salt.
30         In some embodiments, the use of a salt additive in the reaction increases the
   yield by about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, about
   70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 100%, about 200%, about 300%, about 400%, about

                                                  - 47
   500%, or greater, relative to conducting the reaction under essentially the same
   conditions but in the absence of a salt additive.
             Those of ordinary skill in the art will be able to select and/or determine the
   appropriate set of reaction conditions (e.g., concentration, temperature, pressure, reaction
 5 time, solvents, etc.) suitable for use in a particular application. The imaging agent may
   be further processed using one or more purification techniques, and may optionally be
   combined with additional components, such as a stabilizing agent.
             Those of ordinary skill in the art would be able to select a source of a fluoride
   species suitable for use in the methods described herein. The term "fluoride species" as
10 used herein refers to a fluoride atom or group of atoms comprising at least one fluoride
   atom, wherein the fluoride atom is capable of reacting with another compound (e.g., an
   imaging agent precursor). In some embodiments, an isotopically-enriched             18F  species
   may be produced by the nuclear reaction       18 0(p,n)18 F from proton bombardment of
   [ 180]H2 0 in a cyclotron. The method may involve treating a solution of the 18F species
15 to remove any impurities, such as unreacted [ 180]H20. For example, a solution of the
   18F species may be filtered through an anion exchange column, where
                                                                                  the 18F species is
   retained on the cationic resin matrix while the [ 180]H2 0 is eluted. The 18F species is
   then removed by washing the anion exchange column with various mixtures of solvents
   and optional additives (e.g., salt additives), forming an      18F-containing  solution. In some
20 cases, the anion exchange column is washed with an aqueous solution of a salt, such as
   KHCO 3 or Et 4NHCO 3.
                                 18
             In some cases, the    F-containing solution is combined with additional
   components prior to reaction with an imaging agent precursor. For example, one or
   more solvents may be added to dilute the       18F-containing   solution to a selected
                                                         18
25 concentration. In one set of embodiments, the           F-containing solution is diluted with
   acetonitrile.
                                 18
             In some cases, the    F-containing solution may be concentrated to dryness by
   exposure to elevated temperature and/or reduced pressure to form an anhydrous              18F
                                                      18
   containing solid. In some embodiments, the           F-containing solid may further comprise
                                                                                          18
30 one or more additives (e.g., salt additives). The chemical composition of the             F
   containing solid may depend on the number and kind of additives used in preparation of
   the  1 8F-containing  solution. For example, a solution of potassium bicarbonate may be
                      18
   used to elute the    F species from the anion exchange column, thereby resulting in an

                                                -48
   18
      F-containing solid comprising [I 8F]KF. In another example, a solution of ammonium
   bicarbonate is used to elute the  18F species from the anion exchange column, thereby
   resulting in an  18F-containing solid comprising [I 8F]Et 4NF.
            In some cases, the solution comprising the    18F species is heated to a temperature
 5 ranging from room temperature to about 200 'C. In some embodiments, the solution is
   heated to a temperature ranging from 90-120 'C. In some cases, the solution is heated to
   about 75 'C, about 85 'C, about 95 'C, about 105 'C, about 115 'C, about 125 'C, or
   greater. In some cases, the solution is placed under a reduced pressure of about 100 mm
   Hg, about 125 mm Hg, about 150 mm Hg, about 175 mm Hg, about 200 mm Hg, about
10 225 mm Hg, about 250 mm Hg, about 275 mm Hg, about 300 mm Hg, about 325 mm
   Hg, about 350 mm Hg, about 375 mm Hg, about 400 mm Hg, or greater. In some cases,
   the solution is placed under a reduced pressure of about 100 mbar, about 125 mbar, about
   150 mbar, about 175 mbar, about 200 mbar, about 225 mbar, about 250 mbar, about 275
   mbar, about 280 mbar, about 300 mbar, about 325 mbar, about 350 mbar, about 375
15 mbar, about 400 mbar, about 450 mbar, about 500 mbar, or greater. Those of ordinary
   skill in the art would be able to select and/or determine conditions suitable for a
   particular reaction. In some embodiments, the solution is concentrated to dryness at
   about 150 mm Hg and about 115 'C. In some embodiments, the solution is concentrated
   to dryness at about 375 mm Hg and about 115 'C. In some embodiments, the solution is
20 concentrated to dryness at about 400 mbar and about 110-150 'C. In some embodiments,
   the solution is concentrated to dryness at about 280 mbar and about 95-115 'C.
            The fluoride species and/or the additive, if present, is then contacted with the
   imaging agent precursor under conditions that result in conversion of the imaging agent
   precursor to the imaging agent product via nucleophilic fluorination. Those of ordinary
25 skill in the art would be able to select conditions suitable for use in a particular reaction.
   For example, the ratio of fluoride species to imaging agent precursor may be selected to
   be about 1:10,000 or more, about 1:5000 or more, about 1:3000 or more, about 1:2000 or
   more, 1:1000 or more, 1:500 or more, 1:100 or more, 1:50 or more, 1:10 or more, 1:5 or
   more, or, in some cases, 1:1 or more. In some embodiments, the fluoride species may be
30 present at about 10 mol %, or about 5 mol%, or about 3 mol%, or about 2 mol%, or
   about 1 mol% or about 0.5 mol%, or about 0.1 mol%, or about 0.05 mol%, or about 0.01
   mol% relative to the amount of imaging agent precursor. In some embodiments, at least
   of the fluoride species provided is enriched in   18F.  For example, the ratio of 18F species

                                                 - 49
   to imaging agent precursor may be selected to be about 1:1,000,000 or more, or about
   1:500,000 or more, or about 1:250,000 or more, or about 1:100,000 or more, or about
   1:50,000 or more, or about 1:25,000 or more, or about 1:10,000 or more, about 1:5000 or
   more, about 1:3000 or more, about 1:2000 or more, 1:1000 or more, 1:500 or more,
 5 1:100 or more, 1:50 or more, 1:10 or more, 1:5 or more, or, in some cases, 1:1 or more.
            In some embodiments, the nucleophilic fluorination reaction is carried out in the
   presence of one or more solvents, for example, an organic solvents, a non-organic
   solvent (e.g., an aqueous solvent), or a combination thereof. In some cases, the solvent is
   a polar solvent or a non-polar solvent. In some embodiments, the solvent is an aqueous
10 solution, such as water. The solvent comprises at least about 0.001% water, at least
   about 0.01% water, at least about 0.1% water, at least about 1% water, at least about 5%,
   at least about 10%, at least about 2 0% water, at least about 3 0% water, at least about
   40% water, at least about 50% water, or greater. In some cases, the solvent may
   comprise between about 0.10%and 100% water, about 1% to about 9 0%, about 1% to
15 about 7 0%, about 1% to about 50%, or about 10% to about 50%. In some cases, the
   solvent comprises no more than 10% water, 5% water, 4% water, 3% water, 2% water,
   1% water, or 0.5% water. In some cases, the solvent comprises between about 0.01%
   water and about 5% water, or between about 0.01% water and about 2 % water, or
   between about 0. 1% water and about 0. 2 % water.
20          Other non-limiting examples of solvents useful in the inventive methods include,
   but are not limited to, non-halogenated hydrocarbon solvents (e.g., pentane, hexane,
   heptane, cyclohexane, etc.), halogenated hydrocarbon solvents (e.g., dichloromethane,
   chloroform, fluorobenzene, trifluoromethylbenzene, etc.), aromatic hydrocarbon solvents
   (e.g., toluene, benzene, xylene, etc.), ester solvents (e.g., ethyl acetate, etc.), ether
25 solvents (e.g., tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, diethyl ether, dimethoxyethane, etc.), and
   alcohol solvents (e.g., ethanol, methanol, propanol, isopropanol, etc.). Other non
   limiting examples of solvents include acetone, acetic acid, formic acid, dimethyl
   sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, acetonitrile, and pyridine. In some embodiments, the
   reaction is carried out in a polar solvent, such as acetonitrile.
                                                        18
30          In one set of embodiments, an anhydrous       F-containing solid, optionally
   comprising an additive, may be contacted with a solution of an imaging agent precursor
   (e.g., a tosylate precursor), and the resulting solution is heated to an elevated temperature
   for a select period of time. The solution may be, for example, an acetonitrile solution. In

                                                 - 50
                                           18
   other embodiments, a solution of the       F species and additive, if present, is contacted
   with a solid imaging agent precursor or a solution of the imaging agent precursor.
           Some embodiments involve contacting the imaging agent precursor with the
   fluoride species in a solution having a pH below about 7, below about 6, or, below about
 5 5. In some cases, the solution has a pH between about 5 and about 6, or between about 5
   and, about 7 or between about 4 and about 7.
           In some cases, the solution comprising the     18F species, imaging agent precursor,
   and, optionally, additive, is heated at an elevated temperature for a period of time. For
   example, the solution may be heated to about 50 C, about 60 C, about 70 'C, about 80
10 'C, about 90 'C, about 100 'C, about 110 'C, about 120 'C, 150 'C, about 170 'C, about
   200 'C, about 225 'C, about 250 'C or greater, for a period of 5 minutes or less, 10
   minutes or less, 20 minutes or less, 30 minutes or less. It should be understood that other
   temperatures and reaction times may be used. Upon completion of the reaction, the
   reaction mixture is then cooled (e.g., to room temperature) and optionally diluted with a
15 solvent, such as water.
           Upon completion of the fluorination reaction, the resulting imaging agent is
   optionally subjected to one or more purification steps. In some cases, the synthesis,
   purification, and/or formulation of an imaging agent (e.g., a compound comprising
   formula (II)) may be prepared using an automated reaction system comprising a cassette,
20 wherein the cassette may comprise a synthesis module, a purification module, and/or a
   formulation module. Automated reaction systems and cassettes are described herein.
           Purification and isolation may be performed using methods known to those
   skilled in the art, including separation techniques like chromatography, or combinations
   of various separation techniques known in the art, for example, extractions, distillation,
25 and crystallization. In one embodiment, high performance liquid chromatography
   (HPLC) is used with a solvent, or mixture of solvents, as the eluent, to recover the
   product. In some cases, the eluent includes a mixture of water and acetonitrile, such as a
   45:55 water:acetonitrile mixture. The content of water in the eluent may vary from, for
   example, about 1%to about 50 %. In some cases, HPLC maybe performed using a C18
30 column.
           The product may be further processed using additional purification techniques,
   such as filtration. In some cases, the imaging agent may be purified using HPLC, to
   produce a solution of HPLC mobile phase and the imaging agent. The HPLC mobile

                                                -51
   phase may be subsequently exchanged for a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof,
   and ethanol solution, by filtration through a C-18 resin (e.g., C18 Sep-Pak* cartridge).
   In some embodiments, the solution of the HPLC mobile phase and the imaging agent is
   filtered through a  C-18  resin, where the imaging agent remains on the resin and the other
 5 components, such as acetonitrile and/or other solvents or components, are removed via
   elution. The C-18 resin may be further washed with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt
   thereof, and the filtrate discarded. To recover the purified imaging agent, the C-18 resin
   is washed with a solvent, such as ethanol, and the resulting solution is optionally further
   diluted with an ascorbic acid solution or a salt thereof, as described herein.
10          Optionally, the recovered product is combined with one or more stabilizing
   agents, such as ascorbic acid or a salt thereof. For example, a solution comprising the
   purified imaging agent may be further diluted with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt
   thereof. As described herein, a formulation may be prepared via an automated reaction
   system comprising a cassette.
15          In some cases, a solution comprising the imaging agent product may be sterile
   filtered (e.g., using a 13 mm diameter, Millipore, Millex PVDF 0.22 Pm sterilizing filter)
   into a sterile product vial. The sterile product vial may be a commercially available, pre
   sterilized unit that is not opened during the production process, as any imaging agents (or
   other components) may be aseptically inserted through the septum prior to use. Those of
20 ordinary skill in the art would be able to select suitable vials and production components,
   including commercially available, pre-sterilized units comprising a 0.22 pLm pore size
   membrane venting filter and quality control sampling syringes.
            Following aseptic filtration, individual doses may be filled in syringes, labeled,
   and shipped to a clinical site. Dosing administration techniques, kits, cassettes, method
25 and systems (e.g., automated reaction systems) for synthesis of the imaging agent, and
   testing procedures are described herein. In some embodiments, the product is dispensed
   into a 3 or 5 mL syringe and labeled for distribution. Labels may be prepared at a
   radiopharmacy and applied to a syringe shield and shipping container. Additional labels
   may be provided in the shipping container for inclusion in clinical site records.
30          The imaging agents may be used in a method of imaging, including methods of
   imaging a patient comprising administering the imaging agent to the patient by injection,
   infusion, or any other method, and imaging an area of the patient, as described herein. In
   some embodiments, a portion of a heart of the patient is imaged.

                                                - 52
   Exemplarv Methods for the Synthesis of Imaging agent Precursors
            Methods are also provided for synthesizing imaging agent precursors, and
   intermediates thereof. In some cases, the methods for synthesizing an imaging agent
 5 precursor (e.g., a compound comprising formula (I)) exhibits improved yields and/or
   may allow for the large-scale synthesis of the imaging agent precursors and/or
   intermediates thereof. Some embodiments provide the ability to synthesize a desired
   product without need for purification, such as chromatography, which can be time
   consuming and/or expensive with the loss of product. As noted above, Figure 1 shows
10 an illustrative example of an imaging agent precursor which has been utilized in the
   synthesis of an imaging agent for imaging myocardial perfusion. The leaving group (i.e.,
   tosylate group) is replaced with an imaging moiety, for example,     18F, as described herein,
   thereby forming an imaging agent.
             In some embodiments, an imaging agent precursor is formed via a reaction in
15 which a bond between a heteroatom and an alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl group is
   formed. For example, the reaction may be an alkylation reaction, such as an
   etherification reaction. In some embodiments, the reaction involves a hydroxyl
   containing nucleophilic species reacting with an electrophilic species to form an ether
   linkage. As used herein, the term "ether" or "ether linkage" is given its ordinary
20 meaning in the art and refers to the group, Ra-O-Rb, where Ra and Rb can be the same or
   different and are alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, any of which may be substituted.
   For example, the reaction may involve nucleophilic addition of the oxygen atom of the
   hydroxyl-containing species to an electrophilic species. In some embodiments, the
   reaction may involve coupling between two alcohols via, for example, a Mitsunobu
25 reaction.
            In some cases, the etherification reaction includes formation of a bond between
   an oxygen atom and an alkyl, aryl, heteroalkyl, heteroaryl, carbocyclic, or heterocyclic
   group. Figure 3 shows an illustrative embodiment of an etherification reaction between
   benzenedimethanol 12 and dichloropyridazinone 11 to form the benzyl alcohol 13. In
30 another embodiment, Figure 4 shows an etherification reaction between
   hydroxychloropyridazinone 17 and methyl 4-bromomethylbenzoate to afford
   pyridazinone ester 18.

                                                 - 53
           In some embodiments, the inventive method involves reacting a compound
   comprising formula (III):
                                        0
                                   RN         R2
                                      N
                                              W "        - (R3"
   wherein:
 5         W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted;
           R' is alkyl, optionally substituted;
           R2 is hydrogen or halide;
           each R3 can be the same or different and is alkyl optionally substituted with a
   leaving group, or heteroalkyl optionally substituted with a leaving group; and
10         n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
   with a nucleophile, wherein the nucleophile replaces the leaving group to produce a
   product. For example, the nucleophile may be ethylene glycol, and an etherification
   reaction may be carried out as described herein. In some embodiments, the reaction is
   performed in the presence of a base, such as potassium t-butoxide or potassium
15 hydroxide. In some cases, R3 is alkyl substituted with a leaving group and/or n is 1. In
   some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (III) comprises the structure:
                                          0
                                    R          R2
                                       N
                                       'N-.
                                                O
                                                N                 Br
   wherein the leaving group is Br, and the product of the reaction comprises formula:
                                      0
                                    N       O                      OH
                                                      -o:     0"'
20 wherein RI and R2 are as defined herein.
           In some cases, a compound comprising formula (III) comprises the structure:
                                           0
                                   tBuN          CI
                                                0                 Br

                                                - 54
   and the product of the etherification reaction comprises the formula:
                                      0
                               tBuN          CI
                                    N:.     0                    OH
                                                      -     0      H
           In some cases, the compound comprising formula (III) may act as a nucleophile
 5 and may be reacted with an electrophile, to produce a product. For example, R3 may be
   -CH 2OH, and the electrophile may be ethylene oxide.
           In some embodiments, the method comprises reacting a compound comprising
   formula (IV):
                                        0
                                   RN         R2
                                     N-I
                                              W
                                                     -(R (R
                                                              (IV)
10 wherein:
           R' is alkyl, optionally substituted;
           R2 is hydrogen or halide;
           W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted;
           each R 4 can be the same or different and is alkyl optionally substituted with
15 hydroxyl or heteroalkyl optionally substituted with hydroxyl; and
           n is 1, 2,3,4,or 5;
   with a reactant, wherein the hydroxyl group is replaced with a portion of the reactant to
   form a leaving group associated with the compound. In some cases, R 4 is alkyl
   substituted with hydroxyl and/or n is 1. In some embodiments, reacting the compound
20 comprising formula IV involves exposure to a halogenation reagent, such as phosphorus
   tribromide, pyridinium dibromide, or a combination of carbon tetrabromide and
   triphenylphospine. In some embodiments, the halogenation reagent is phosphorus
   tribromide.
           In some embodiments, W is -O(CH 2 )-; R' is t-butyl; R 2 is chloride; and R4 is
25 alkyl substituted with hydroxyl. In some cases, n is 1.
           In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) comprises the
   structure:

                                                  - 55
                                          0
                                     RN         R2
                                       N        O           OH
   and the product comprises the structure:
                                          0
                                     R          R2
                                        'N
                                                N           Br
           In some embodiments, the compound comprising formula (IV) comprises the
 5 structure:
                                           0
                                   tBu          CI
                                             Ns  OOH,
   and the product comprises the structure:
                                           0
                                    tBu'N        CI
                                         IN
                                                          0  Br
           In some cases, a method is provided for synthesizing a compound comprising
10 formula (IV). In some cases, the method comprises synthesizing the compound
   comprising formula (IV) via an etherification reaction between compounds comprising
   formulae (IVa) and (IVb):
                              0
                        RN          R2
                                                       R6
                                    R5 (IVa)    and            (R7)m (I~b),
   wherein:
15         R' is alkyl, optionally substituted;
           R2 is hydrogen or halide;
           m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 or greater;
           R5 is hydroxyl or halide; and
           each R6 and R7 can be the same or different and are alkyl, heteroalkyl, or a acyl
20 group, each optionally substituted,

                                                 - 56
           wherein, when R 5 is hydroxyl, at least one of R6 and R7 comprises a leaving
   group or a moiety that can be replace by a leaving group (e.g., hydroxyl), or when R5 is
   halide, at least one of R6 and R7 comprises a hydroxyl.
           In some cases, a compound comprising formula (IVa) comprises the structure:
                                                    0
                                           tBuN       CI
 5                                                    R5 .
   wherein R 5 is as described herein.
           In one set of embodiments, the compound comprising formula II is synthesized
   by an etherification reaction between compounds comprising formulae (IVa) and (IVd):
                               0
                           N
                            |i                        R6/\R7
                                N  R5 (IVa)     and        -          (IVd),
10 wherein:
           R' is alkyl, optionally substituted;
           R2  is hydrogen or halide;
           R is hydroxyl or halide; and
           R6 and R7 can be the same or different and are alkyl, heteroalkyl, or a carbonyl
15 group, each optionally substituted,
           wherein, when R 5 is hydroxyl, at least one of R6 and R7 comprises a leaving
   group, or when R5 is halide, at least one of R6 and R7 comprises a hydroxyl. In one set of
   embodiments, R 5 is hydroxyl, R6 is a carbonyl group, and R7 is a substituted alkyl. In
   some cases, R5 is hydroxyl, R6 is an ester, and R7 is alkyl substituted with a leaving
20 group.
           In some cases, a compound comprising formula (IVa) comprises the structure:
                                                    0
                                           tBuN       CI
                                                      R5 .
   wherein R 5 is as defined herein.
           The etherification reaction may be carried out as described herein, and may
25 comprise exposure of the precursor compounds to a base, such as potassium carbonate.
           In some embodiments, R5 is halide; and R6 and R7 are each alkyl, optionally
   substituted. In some embodiments, R5 is chloride; and R6 and R7 are each alkyl

                                                - 57
   substituted with hydroxyl. In one embodiment, an etherification reaction between
   compounds comprising formulae (IVe) and (IVf):
                           0
                     RN         R2                                  OH
                        N       CI     (IVe) and      HO   -            (IVf),
   forms a product comprising the formula:
                                          0
                                     1,.       R
                                   R
                                        N
                                          O                  OH
           In one embodiment, an etherification reaction between compounds comprising
   formulae:
                                   0
                            tBu           CI                       OH
                                N         CI and     HO               ,
   forms a product comprising formula:
                                           0
                                  tBu'N        CI
                                         IN1
10                                                       -    OH
           In one embodiment, an etherification reaction between compounds comprising
   formulae:
                                   0
                           tBu,           CI           O           Br
                                N         OH and    MeOY,
   forms a product comprising formula:
                                          0
                                tBu'N
                                              CI
                                           N 0
                                                             OCH 3
15                                                         0
   The product may be reduced with a reducing agent, such as lithium aluminum hydride,
   lithium borohydride, or diisobutylaluminum hydride (DIBAL-H), thereby converting the
   ester group into an alcohol.

                                                - 58
            As shown by the illustrative embodiment in Figure 3, benzenedimethanol 12 and
   dichloropyridazinone 11 may be reacted via an etherification reaction in the presence of
   potassium carbonate in DMF to form benzyl alcohol 13. In some embodiments, a
   disubstituted impurity is also formed wherein benzenedimethanol 12 becomes alkylated
 5 at both hydroxyl groups, which may later be removed via chromatographic purification.
   Conversion of benzyl alcohol 13 to benzyl bromide 14 may be carried out with a variety
   of brominating agents, such as phosphorous tribromide in dichloromethane. Subsequent
   conversion of benzyl bromide 14 to alcohol 15 may be completed by reaction with
   ethylene glycol in the presence of potassium t-butoxide in tetrahydrofuran, in some cases
10 at elevated temperature. Alcohol 15 may then be purified by column chromatography to
   remove any impurities, including disubstituted impurities formed during the synthesis of
   benzyl alcohol 13. Alcohol 15 may then be further reacted with p-toluenesulfonyl
   chloride in the presence of DMAP, triethylamine, and dichloromethane to form imaging
   agent precursor 1, which may be purified via recrystallization. Using the method shown
15 in Figure 5, the overall yield for synthesizing alcohol 15 starting from compound 11
   (e.g., 2-(t-butyl)-4,5-dichloropyridazin-3(2H)-one) and compound 12 (e.g., 1,4
   benzenedimethanol) may be at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, or at least 40%,
   using chromatography as the purification method. In some cases, the overall yield for
   synthesizing alcohol 15 starting from compound 11 and compound 12 is approximately
20 43%, using chromatography as the purification method.
            Figure 4 shows an alternate approach to the synthesis of alcohol 13 involving
   reaction of dichloropyridazinone 11 with potassium hydroxide in ethylene glycol to
   afford chlorohydroxypyridazinone 17, which may then be reacted with methyl 4
   bromomethylbenzoate in the presence of potassium carbonate in DMF to afford
25 pyridazinone ester 18. Next, reduction of pyridazinone ester 18, for example, using
   either DIBAL-H or lithium aluminum hydride, may produce benzyl alcohol 13, which
   may then be converted to alcohol 15 and imaging agent precursor 1, as described herein.
   One advantageous feature of the synthetic scheme shown in Figure 4 is the reduction or
   elimination of disubstituted impurities that may be formed in the synthetic scheme
30 shown in Figure 3. This provides the ability to purify benzyl alcohol 13 without the use
   of chromatography. In some cases, recrystallization methods alone may be used to
   afford an intermediate compound of very high purity. For example, benzyl alcohol 13
   may be purified by recrystallization from isopropyl acetate. Additionally, the synthetic

                                                      - 59
   scheme shown in Figure 4 may provide a more simplified process, which may be
   performed with high-yield reactions and without the need for additional
   protection/deprotection steps. Using the method shown in Figure 4, the overall yield for
   synthesizing alcohol 15 starting from compound 17 (e.g., 2-(t-butyl)-4-chloro-5
 5 hydroxypyridazin-3(2H)-one) and methyl 4-bromomethylbenzoate may be at least 10%,
   at least 20%, at least 30%, or at least 40%, without the use of chromatography for
   purification. In some cases, the overall yield for synthesizing alcohol 15 starting from
   compound 17 and methyl 4-bromomethylbenzoate is 48%, without the use of
   chromatography as a purification method.
10          In some embodiments, an etherification reaction (e.g., see Figure 3, etherification
   reaction to form benzyl alcohol 13) is performed in the presence of a base. The base may
   be, for example, a metal or a metal salt, such as a carbonate, a metal alkoxide, or the like.
   In some embodiments, the base may be an organic moiety, such as an amine. Examples
   of bases include, but are not limited to, metals (e.g., sodium metal), alkoxides such as
15 sodium t-butoxide or potassium t-butoxide, an alkali metal amide such as sodium amide,
   lithium diisopropylamide or an alkali metal bis(trialkylsilyl)amides such as lithium
   bis(trimethylsilyl)amide or sodium bis(trimethylsilyl) amide, amines (e.g., triethylamine,
   trimethylamine, Et(i-Pr) 2N, Cy 2MeN, 4-(dimethylamino)pyridine (DMAP), 2,6-lutadine,
   N-methylpyrrolidine (NMP), quinuclidine), 1,5-diazabicycl[4.3.0]non-5-ene (DBN), 1,5
20 diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-5-ene (DBU), ammonium salts (e.g., ammonium hydroxide,
   tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide), alkali and alkaline earth carbonates, alkali and
   alkaline earth bicarbonates, alkali and alkaline earth hydroxides (e.g., sodium hydroxide,
   potassium hydroxide), and alkali and alkaline earth hydrides, (e.g., NaH, LiH, KH,
   K2 C0 3 , Na 2 CO 3 , T12 CO 3 , Cs 2 CO 3 , K(Ot-Bu), Li(Ot-Bu), Na(Ot-Bu) K(OPh), Na(OPh)).
25 In some embodiments, the base is sodium metal, sodium hydride, potassium t-butoxide,
   sodium methoxide, potassium carbonate, sodium carbonate, cesium carbonate, or
   potassium hydroxide. In some embodiments, the base is cesium carbonate. In some
   embodiments, the base is potassium hydroxide. In some embodiments, the base is
   sodium hydroxide. In some embodiments, the base is potassium t-butoxide. In some
30 embodiments, the base is tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide. It should be understood
   that an etherification reaction may also be conducted in the absence of a base.
            One or more additives may be incorporated into the etherification reaction
   mixture to facilitate the reaction. In some cases, the etherification reaction may be

                                                - 60
   performed in the presence of a catalyst. For example, the catalyst may be a salt, such as
   an ammonium salt. In some embodiments, the catalyst may be a tetraalkylammonium
   halide, such as, but not limited to, tetraethylammonium iodide. In some embodiments,
   the catalyst may be a phase transfer catalyst. As used herein, the term "phase transfer
 5 catalyst" refers to any species capable of facilitating the migration of a compound from a
   first phase into a second, different phase, for example, during the course of a chemical
   reaction. In some embodiments, the phase transfer catalyst enhances migration of a
   compound from one phase into a different phase, wherein a chemical reaction takes
   place. Some examples of phase transfer catalysts include, but are not limited to, benzyl
10 triethylammonium chloride, tetrabutylammonium chloride, tetraethyl ammonium
   chloride, tetrabutylammonium sulfate, tetraoctylammonium sulfate, and tetramethyl
   ammonium hydroxide. The phase transfer catalyst may be used in combination with, for
   example, a base or other chemical reagent. In some embodiments, the reaction involves
   exposure to sodium hydroxide and a phase transfer catalyst, such as benzyl
15 triethylammonium chloride.
           An etherification reaction may optionally be carried out in the presence of one or
   more solvents. The solvent may be, for example, an organic solvent (e.g., toluene), an
   aqueous solvent, or a combination thereof. In some cases, the solvent may be a polar
   solvent (e.g., polar protic solvents, polar aprotic solvents). Examples of polar solvents
20 include, but are not limited to, acetone, ethyl acetate, dimethylformamide (DMF),
   dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), acetonitrile, alcohols, or combinations thereof. In one set
   of embodiments, the etherification reaction is performed in the presence of DMF. In one
   set of embodiments, the etherification reaction is performed in the presence of THF. In
   some cases, the etherification reaction may be performed in the presence of an ionic
25 liquid. In some embodiments, the etherification reaction is performed in the absence of
   solvent. For example, the compound may be reacted in neat ethylene glycol.
           In some cases, the components of an etherification reaction is heated or cooled to
   any temperature from about 0 'C to about 200 'C, for a period of time. In some
   embodiments, the solution is heated to a temperature from about 20 'C to about 100 'C,
30 or from about 40 'C to about 70 'C In some cases, the solution may be heated to about
   20 'C, about 30 'C, about 40 'C, about 50 'C, about 60 'C, about 70 'C, about 80 'C, or
   greater. In some embodiments, the etherification reaction mixture is maintained at about
   20 'C. In some embodiments, the etherification reaction mixture is maintained at room

                                               - 61
   temperature. In some embodiments, the etherification reaction mixture is heated to about
   60 'C. In some embodiments, the etherification reaction mixture is heated to about 65
   'C. The reaction may be heated/cooled/maintained at a particular temperature for a
   period of time, such as up to about 1 hour, about 2 hours, about 3 hours, about 4 hours,
 5 about 5 hours, about 10 hours, about 15 hours, about 20 hours, about 25 hours, about 30
   hours, or more. In one set of embodiments, the reaction mixture is heated at about 65 'C
   for about 4 hours. In another set of embodiments, the reaction mixture is maintained at
   about 20 'C for about 18 hours. It should be understood that other temperatures and
   reaction times may also be used.
10          In some embodiments, the method involves a reduction reaction (e.g., see Figure
   4, reduction of pyridazinone ester 18). The term "reduction reaction" is given its
   ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a chemical reaction in which the oxidation state
   of at least one atom is reduced. For example, the reduction reaction may involve
   reduction of an ester or a ketone to an alcohol. The reduction reaction may be carried out
15 using reducing reagents known to those of ordinary skill in the art, including lithium
   aluminum hydride, lithium borohydride (with or without methanol additive), and
   diisobutylaluminum hydride (DIBAL-H) in a variety of solvents including
   tetrahydrofuran, methyltetrahydrofuran, and dichloromethane. In one set of
   embodiments, the reduction reagent may be a 25% w/w solution of DIBAL-H in toluene,
20 using 2-methyltetrahydrofuran as a cosolvent.
            In some embodiments, the invention provides methods for the synthesis of a
   compound (e.g., intermediate compound) comprising a leaving group. Leaving groups
   are described herein. In some embodiments, the leaving group is a halide, such as a
   bromide.
25          In some cases, the compound includes a moiety (e.g., hydroxyl) which may be
   readily converted into a leaving group. For example, the compound may include a
   hydroxyl group which is converted into a tosylate group upon reaction with p
   toluenesulfonyl chloride. In other embodiments, a compound may include a hydroxyl
   group which may be treated with a phosphine (e.g., triphenylphosphine, TPP) and
30 diethylazodicarboxylate (DEAD) using Mitsunobu chemistry to form a leaving group.
            In one set of embodiments, the method involves converting a hydroxyl group to a
   leaving group. For example, the method may involve replacing the hydroxyl group with
   a leaving group such as a halide (e.g., bromide). In some embodiments, the compound

                                               - 62
   substituted with a hydroxyl group is exposed to a halogenation reagent. In some cases,
   the halogenation reagent is a brominating reagent, such as phosphorus tribromide,
   pyridinium dibromide, or a combination of carbon tetrabromide and triphenylphospine.
   In one set of embodiments, the brominating reagent is phosphorus tribromide.
 5         A halogenation reaction may be performed in the presence of one or more
   solvents. In some embodiments, the solvent is an organic solvent, such as
   dichloromethane, chloroform, benzene, or toluene. In one set of embodiments, the
   solvent used is dichloromethane.
           In some cases, the halogenation reaction mixture is heated or cooled to any
10 temperature ranging from 0 'C to about 200 'C, for a period of time. In some
   embodiments, the solution is heated to a temperature ranging from about 20 'C to about
   100 'C. In some cases, the solution is heated to about 20 'C, about 30 'C, about 40 'C,
   about 50 'C, or greater, including temperatures in between. In some embodiments, the
   halogenation reaction mixture is maintained at 20 'C. The reaction may be
15 heated/cooled/maintained at a particular temperature for a period of time, such as up to
   10 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, 5 hours, 10 hours, or more. In
   another set of embodiments, the reaction mixture is maintained at 20 'C for 30 minutes.
   It should be understood that other temperatures and reaction times may also be used.
           The synthesis of an imaging agent precursor may include other reactions,
20 including ring-opening reactions, reduction reactions, protection/deprotection reactions,
   and the like.
           After any reaction, the compounds (e.g., intermediates, products) described
   herein may be subjected to one or more purification steps. Purification and isolation may
   be performed using methods known to those skilled in the art, including separation
25 techniques like chromatography, or combinations of various separation techniques as are
   known the art. In some embodiments, column chromatography is used with silica or
   alumina as the stationary phase and a solvent, or mixture of solvents, as the eluent, to
   recover the product. In some cases, the eluent may include a mixture of a non-polar
   solvent and a polar solvent. For example, the eluent may include a mixture of heptane
30 and ethyl acetate.
           In some cases, the synthesis or a particular reaction may be conducted without
   need for purification. In some embodiments, a compound or intermediate may be
   purified using recrystallization, a process which may be repeated until the desired level

                                                  - 63
   of purity of the product is obtained. In one embodiment, the compound or intermediate
   is recrystallized at least once, two times, three times, or four or more times to achieve the
   desired level of purity. For example, the compound or intermediate may be obtained at a
   purity of greater than or equal to 50%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 98.5%, or
 5 99.8%. Recrystallization may be achieved using a single solvent, or a combination of
   solvents. In some cases, recrystallization is achieved by dissolving the compound or
   intermediate in a solvent such as hexane at elevated temperatures, and then cooling the
   solution to produce a precipitate. In certain embodiments the compound is recrystallized
   from hexane.
10         Some embodiments may involve a ring-opening reaction. For example, a ring
   opening reaction may be performed upon exposure of a compound comprising a ring to a
   nucleophile, optionally in the presence of a catalyst. In some embodiments, the
   nucleophile may be a hydride (e.g., H-). In some embodiments, the ring-opening
   reaction may be performed in the presence of a metal-containing catalyst, such as
15 zirconium chloride.
           In some embodiments, the method involves reacting a compound comprising
   formula (V):
                                           0
                                    R1,.N      R2
                                        N-.
                                         R     R2
                                                         OJ(V),
   wherein:
20         W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted;
           R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; and
           R2  is hydrogen or halide,
   with a nucleophile or a radical species to produce a compound comprising formula (VI),
                                      0
                                             W                OH
                                                   W    O-0       (VI).
25         Some embodiments involve exposure of the compound comprising formula (V)
   to a nucleophile. In some embodiments, the nucleophile is a hydride ion (e.g., H-). In

                                                - 64
   some cases, reacting the compound involves contacting the compound with
   diisobutylaluminum hydride (DIBAL-H).
           The ring-opening reaction may also occur via a radical reaction. For example,
   the compound comprising formula (V) may be exposed to a radical species, such as a
 5 hydrogen radical (e.g., He), in order to produce the compound comprising formula (VI).
   In some embodiments, the radical species may be generated by a catalyst, such as SmI 2.
           In some embodiments, methods are provided for synthesizing a compound
   comprising formula (VI). For example, an etherification reaction is performed between
   compounds comprising formulae (Va) and (Vb):
                             0
                                  OH
                       RN         R2               HO
10                        N       CI   (Va)   and               0     (Vb),
   to form a product comprising the formula:
                                         0
                                       N
                                                              0
                                                          0j
   wherein:
           R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; and
15         R2 is hydrogen or halide.
           For example, an etherification reaction between compounds comprising the
   formulae:
                             tBu          CI       HO
                                                                  0
                                  N       C                -!
                                          CI  and               Oj,
   forms a product comprising the formula:
                                          0
                                  tBu',N
                                               CI
                                       Ns
                                            N
                                                              0
20                                                         0
   This etherification reaction may be performed as described herein and may involve
   exposure to a base (e.g., cesium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, tetramethyl ammonium

                                               - 65
   hydroxide), optionally in the presence of a phase transfer catalyst. In some
   embodiments, the etherification reaction involves exposure to sodium hydroxide and
   benzyl triethylammonium chloride. In some cases, the etherification reaction is
   performed in the presence of a phase transfer catalyst and an ionic liquid.
 5        In one set of embodiments, an etherification reaction between compounds
   comprising formulae (Vc) and (Vb):
                           0
                     R1,         R2               HO
                                 C1 (Vc)     and                0        (Vb),
   under Mitsunobu conditions (e.g., PPh 3 and DEAD) forms a product comprising the
   formula:
                                       0
                                   RN         R2
                                     N
                                              O
                                                             O
10                                                         0
   wherein R' is alkyl, optionally substituted; and
          R2 is hydrogen or halide.
   For example, an etherification reaction between compounds comprising formulae:
                          tBu          CI          HO
                                       OH     and
                                                                 0     ,
15 under Mitsunobu conditions (e.g., PPh 3 and DEAD) forms a product comprising the
   formula:
                                        0
                                 tBu,N        CI
                                     N00
                                                  Ou
                                                        -   0
          Some embodiments may further involve the synthesis of a compound comprising
   formula (VII):

                                                -66
                                        0
                                     Ra
                                              /       0
                                                    0    (VII),
   wherein Ra may be hydrogen, hydroxyl, halide (e.g., chloride), 0-alkyl, 0-heteroalkyl,
   0-aryl, 0-heteroaryl, S-alkyl, S-heteroalkyl, S-aryl, S-heteroaryl, alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl,
   or heteroaryl, any of which may be optionally substituted. In some cases, Ra is O-alkyl
 5 such as 0-methyl, 0-ethyl, 0-propyl, and the like. In some embodiments, Ra is 0
   methyl. For example, the method may involve the reaction of methyl 4-formyl benzoate
   with ethylene glycol in the presence of an acid to produce a compound comprising
   formula (VII). The compound comprising formula (VII) may be further reacted, for
   example, to install a leaving group on the compound. In some cases, the leaving group is
10 a hydroxyl group. In one set of embodiments, Ra is methyl, and the carboxy group is
   treated with a reducing agent such as lithium aluminum hydride, sodium bis(2
   methoxyethoxy)aluminum hydride or lithium borohydride to produce a benzylic alcohol.
           Figure 5 shows an illustrative embodiment for synthesizing alcohol 15 using a
   ring-opening reaction. The first step involves the conversion of ether methyl 4-formyl
15 benzoate or 4-formylbenzoic acid to the corresponding acetal through the reaction with
   ethylene glycol in the presence of an acid. In some embodiments, methyl 4-formyl
   benzoate and ethylene glycol are reacted in the presence of toluenesulfonic acid and
   toluene. The solvent may be heated at reflux, using azeotropic distillation to remove any
   water that is produced in order to drive the reaction to completion. The derived acid or
20 ester 19 may then be reduced to benzyl alcohol 20 with lithium aluminum hydride,
   sodium bis(2-methoxyethoxy)aluminum hydride, lithium borohydride (e.g., for an ester),
   or borane (e.g., for an acid). In some cases, lithium aluminum hydride or sodium bis(2
   methoxyethoxy)aluminum hydride may be used as the reducing agent. Benzyl alcohol
   20 may then be reacted with dichloropyridazinone 11 via an etherification reaction as
25 described herein to afford compound 21. For example, the etherification reaction may be
   carried out with cesium carbonate, potassium carbonate, or sodium hydroxide in the
   presence of a variety of phase transfer catalysis reagents, such as, but not limited to,
   benzyl triethylammonium chloride. In one set of embodiments, the etherification
   reaction involves the use of cesium carbonate in dimethylformamide. In another set of
30 embodiments, the etherification reaction involves the use of sodium hydroxide with 1
   10% benzyl triethylammonium chloride in toluene.

                                               - 67
            The acetal ring of compound 21 may then be opened to the corresponding alcohol
   15 using diisobutylaluminum hydride (DIBAL-H). In some cases, the ring-opening
   reaction may be carried out in the presence of a catalyst, such as a metal-containing
   catalyst (e.g., zirconium chloride) or an organic catalyst (e.g., 9-borabicyclononane (9
 5 BBN) dimer).
            In some cases, the components of the ring-opening reaction is heated or cooled to
   any temperature from about -78 'C to about 200 'C, for a period of time. In some
   embodiments, the reaction mixture may be maintained at any temperature from about -78
   'C to about room temperature. In some cases, the reaction mixture may be maintained at
10 about -60 'C, about -50 'C, about -40 'C, about -30 'C, about -20 'C, about -10 'C, about
   0 'C, including all temperatures in between, or greater. In some embodiments, the ring
   opening reaction mixture may be maintained at -40 'C. In some embodiments, the ring
   opening reaction mixture may be maintained at room temperature. The reaction may be
   heated/cooled/maintained at a particular temperature for a period of time, such as about
15 10 minutes, about 30 minutes, about 1 hour, about 2 hours, about 3 hours, about 4 hours,
   about 5 hours, about 10 hours, or any amount of time in between, or more. In another set
   of embodiments, the reaction mixture may be maintained at about -40 'C for about 1
   hour. It should be understood that other temperatures and reaction times may also be
   used.
20          Purification of compound 16 may be performed by successive recrystallizations
   from cumene and/or isobutyl acetate. For example, see Example 37E.
            Using the method shown in Figure 6, the overall yield for synthesizing alcohol 15
   starting from methyl 4-formylbenzoate may be at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%,
   at least 40%, or at least 50%, without or with the use of chromatography for purification.
25 In some cases, the overall yield for synthesizing alcohol 15 starting from methyl 4
   formylbenzoate is approximately 50%, without the use of chromatography for
   purification.
            Any of the methods for synthesizing an imaging agent precursor described herein
   may further comprise the act of exposing the compound comprising formula (VIII):
                                   0
                                   OOH
30                                       W                    H (VIII)

                                                - 68
   with a reagent comprising a leaving group to form a compound comprising formula (IX):
                                      0
                                R          R2
                                                  W      0     (IX)
   wherein W is alkyl or heteroalkyl, optionally substituted;
           R' is alkyl, optionally substituted;
 5         R2 is hydrogen or halide; and
           L is a leaving group.
   In some cases, the reagent is a sulfonate-containing species and the leaving group is a
   sulfonate-containing group (e.g., a sulfonate-containing precursor of an imaging agent).
   In some embodiments, the sulfonate-containing group is mesylate, tosylate, or triflate. In
10 one set of embodiments, the sulfonate-containing group is tosylate. Additional examples
   of leaving groups are described herein.
           For example, the act of exposing the compound comprising the formula:
                                      0
                                 R          R2
                                    N
                                    N       0                  OH
                                                     -     0
   to a reactant comprising a leaving group forms a product comprising the formula:
                                       0
                                     N        0L
              1    2R
   wherein R , R , and L are as described herein.
           In one embodiment, exposure of a compound comprising the formula:
                                       0
                               tBuN          CI
                                             O                   OH
                                                      gt    0h
   to a reactant comprising a tosylate group forms the product comprising the formula:

                                                -69
                                      0
                               tBuN         CI
                                   N                                  OTs
                                                       1!:      0'
           Some embodiments for synthesizing an imaging agent precursor described herein
   provide novel compounds (e.g., intermediates). In some embodiments, the compound
   comprises the structure:
                      o                                       0
               tBuN        CI                      tBu..             C1
                             N                             N
                                    00
 5                  N      OBr,                 or         N         OCI           or
                     o                                           O
             tBu,.        C1                            tBu,.          CI
                  N                                          N
                                   NOO       Tos ,or           Nor.
                                                            0
                    O                             tBu',N:          C1
                    ou  ,        t u           C     I
                  N                                      N         0
                                 N-..                                     .-   OCH 3
                                               or                            0       ,or
                                         0
                                 tBu , N       CI
                                               OH
                                           N
                                                                    0
                                                                 0
10 Exemplary Methods and Applications of Imaging agents
           In some embodiments, the present invention relates to methods of imaging,
   including methods of imaging in a subject that includes administering a composition or
   formulation that includes imaging agent 1 to the subject by injection, infusion, or any
   other known method, and imaging a region of the subject that is of interest. As described
15 herein, (2-t-butyl-4-chloro-5-[4-(2-( 18F)fluoroethoxymethyl)-benzyloxy]-2H-pyridazin
   3-1, or imaging agent 1, comprises the formula:

                                                - 70
                                       0
                                         II
                                 XN                         O        F
   Imaging agent 1 binds to the mitochondrial complex I of the electron transport chain
   with high affinity. Imaging agent 1 shows selective uptake to the heart due to the high
   density of mitochondria in the myocardium. Regions of interest may include, but are not
 5 limited to, the heart, cardiovascular system, cardiac vessels, blood vessels (e.g., arteries,
   veins) brain, and other organs. A parameter of interest, such as blood flow, cardiac wall
   motion, etc., can be imaged and detected using methods and/or systems of the invention.
   In some aspects of the invention, methods for evaluating perfusion, including myocardial
   perfusion, are provided.
10          In some embodiments, methods of the present invention include (a) administering
   to a subject a composition that includes imaging agent 1, and (b) acquiring at least one
   image of at least a portion of the subject. In some cases, acquiring employs positron
   emission tomography (PET) for visualizing the distribution of imaging agent 1 within at
   least a portion of the subject. As will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art,
15 imaging using methods of the invention may include full body imaging of a subject, or
   imaging of a specific body region or tissue of the subject that is of interest. For example,
   if a subject is known to have, or is suspected of having myocardial ischemia, methods of
   the invention may be used to image the heart of the subject. In some embodiments,
   imaging may be limited to the heart, or may include the heart and its associated vascular
20 system.
            In some embodiments of the invention, methods of diagnosing or assisting in
   diagnosing a disease or condition, assessing efficacy of treatment of a disease or
   condition, or imaging in a subject with a known or suspected cardiovascular disease or
   condition are provided. A cardiovascular disease can be any disease of the heart or other
25 organ or tissue nourished by the vascular system. The vascular system includes coronary
   arteries, and all peripheral arteries supplying nourishment to the peripheral vascular
   system and the brain, as well as veins, arterioles, venules, and capillaries. Examples of
   cardiovascular diseases include diseases of the heart, such as coronary artery disease,
   myocardial infarction, myocardial ischemia, angina pectoris, congestive heart failure,
30 cardiomyopathy (congenital or acquired), arrhythmia, or valvular heart disease. In some

                                                 - 71
   embodiments, the methods disclosed herein are useful for monitoring and measuring
   coronary artery disease and/or myocardial perfusion. For example, a method described
   herein can determine the presence or absence of coronary artery disease and/or the
   presence or absence of myocardial infarct. Conditions of the heart may include damage,
 5 not brought on by disease but resulting from injury - e.g., traumatic injury, surgical
   injury. In some cases, methods of the invention may include determining a parameter of,
   or the presence or absence of, myocardial ischemia, rest (R) and/or stress (S) myocardial
   blood flows (MBFs), coronary flow reserve (CFR), coronary artery disease (CAD), left
   ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), end-systolic volume (ESV), end-diastolic volume
10 (EDV), and the like.
           In some cases, a subject to whom a method of the invention is applied, may have
   signs or symptoms suggestive of myocardial ischemia or myocardial infarction. In some
   cases methods of the invention can be used to identify early or pre-disease conditions
   that indicate that a subject is at increased risk of a disease. In some instances, methods
15 of the invention can be used to determine a subject's risk of future cardiac events such as
   myocardial infarction or cardiac death. Imaging methods of the invention can be used to
   detect myocardial ischemia in subjects already diagnosed as having a myocardial
   ischemia disorder or condition, or in subjects that have no history or diagnosis of such a
   condition. In other instances, methods of the invention can be used to obtain
20 measurements that provide a diagnosis or aid in providing a diagnosis of a myocardial
   ischemia disorder or condition. In some instances, a subject may be already be
   undergoing drug therapy for a myocardial ischemia disorder or condition, while in other
   instances a subject may not be undergoing therapy for myocardial ischemia. In some
   embodiments, methods of the invention can be used to assess efficacy of a treatment for
25 a disease or condition. For example, the heart can be visualized using imaging agents of
   the invention before, during, and/or after treatment of a condition affecting the heart of a
   subject. Such visualization may be used to assess a disease or condition, and aid in
   selection of a treatment regimen, e.g. therapy, surgery, medications, for the subject.
           A PET imaging agent may have a high first-pass extraction fraction and can track
30 regional myocardial blood flow over a wide range. These features may permit detection
   of milder decreases in coronary flow reserve and accurate estimation of absolute
   myocardial blood flow (MBF). PET imaging agents of the invention provide these and

                                                - 72
   other features and are also available as a unit dose from regional PET radiopharmacies,
   obviating the need for on-site cyclotrons or costly Rb-82 generators.
           In some embodiments of the invention, imaging agent 1 is used as an imaging
   agent in combination with positron emission tomography (PET) or with other imaging
 5 methods including, but not limited to SPECT imaging. In some embodiments of the
   invention, imaging agent 1 is administered to a subject and imaged in the subject using
   PET. As will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art, PET is a non-invasive
   technique that allows serial images and measurements to be obtained in a single subject
   over a time period. PET imaging used in methods of the invention may be carried out
10 using known systems, methods, and/or devices. In some embodiments of the invention,
   PET imaging is conducted using a cardiac imaging system. A cardiac imaging system
   may include PET imaging functionality and a control unit configured to drive the
   imaging functionality to perform a PET imaging procedure on a portion of the subject
   before, during, and/or after administration of imaging agent 1 to the subject. In some
15 cases, the control unit is configured to drive the imaging functionality to perform a PET
   imaging procedure. The control unit may comprise a computer system and/or software.
   In such a case, the computer system may be programmed or configured to execute the
   required methods for acquiring and/or analyzing the images. Further, the system may
   include a data storage device that is readable by a machine, embodying a set of
20 instructions executable by the machine to perform the required methods of acquiring
   and/or analyzing the images.
           The useful dosage of the imaging agent to be administered and the particular
   mode of administration will vary depending upon such factors as age, weight, and
   particular region to be imaged, as well as the particular imaging agent used, the
25 diagnostic use contemplated, and the form of the formulation, for example, suspension,
   emulsion, microsphere, liposome, or the like, as described herein, and as will be readily
   apparent to those skilled in the art.
           In some embodiments, an imaging agent is administered at a low dosage and the
   dosage increased until the desirable diagnostic effect is achieved. In one embodiment,
30 the above-described imaging agents may be administered by intravenous injection,
   usually in saline solution, at a dose of about 0.1 to about 100 mCi per 70 kg body weight
   (and all combinations and subcombinations of dosage ranges and specific dosages
   therein), or between about 0.5 and about 50 mCi, or between about 0.1 mCi and about 30

                                               - 73
   mCi, or between 0.5 mCi and about 20 mCi. For use as nuclear medicine imaging
   agents, the imaging agents, dosages, administered by intravenous injection, may range
   from about 0.1 pmol/kg to about 1000 pmol/kg (and all combinations and
   subcombinations of dosage ranges and specific dosages therein), and in some
 5 embodiments, less than 150 pmol/kg.
            Imaging systems and components thereof will be known to those of ordinary skill
   in the art. Many imaging systems and components (e.g., cameras, software for analyzing
   the images, etc.) are known and commercially available, for example, a Siemens
   Biograph-64 scanner. Any technique, software, or equipment that reduces or eliminates
10 motion in static perfusion images may be used in methods of the invention, because
   spatial blurring and artifacts can be caused by patient motion during image acquisition.
   In some embodiments of the invention, images may be acquired in list mode, and may be
   static, dynamic, or gated images. An appropriate period of time for acquiring images can
   be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art, and may vary depending on the cardiac
15 imaging system, the imaging agent (e.g., amount administered, composition of the
   imaging agent, subject parameters, area of interest). As used herein a "period of
   acquiring images" or an "image acquisition period" may be a period of obtaining a single
   continuous image, or may be a period during which one or more individual discrete
   images are obtained. Thus, a period of image acquisition can be a period during which
20 one or more images of one or more regions of a subject are acquired.
            In some embodiments of the invention, a period of image acquisition after
   administration of an imaging agent of the invention to a subject may be between about
   30 seconds and about 60 minutes, between about 1 minute and about 30 minutes,
   between about 5 minutes and about 20 minutes, or at least about 1 minute, about 3
25 minutes, about 5 minutes, about 6 minutes, about 7 minutes, about 8 minutes, about 9
   minutes, about 10 minutes, about 15 minutes, about 20 minutes, about 30 minutes, 4
   about 5 minutes, about 60 minutes, or greater. For example, in a rest/stress imaging
   protocol there would be at least two periods of image acquisition with at least one
   corresponding to the rest segment and least one corresponding to the stress segment. In
30 some embodiments, imaging may be continuous over the imaging period of time, or
   images may be acquired at intervals such as in periodic or gated imaging.
            In some aspects of the invention, gated acquisition is used to acquire images from
   a subject to whom an imaging agent prepared by methods of such as imaging agent 1 has

                                                - 74
   been administered. Gated imaging can be used in various aspects of the invention, and
   for example, may provide images of a beating heart of a subject and may be used to
   attain a functional evaluation of how well a heart is beating. Gated imaging can be
   performed by acquiring separate images from the subject at specific intervals during a
 5 period of image acquisition. A non-limiting example of gated imaging is a case when a
   period of image acquisition is about 10 minutes long, and images are acquired at
   repeated intervals during the 10 minute period. The frequency of acquisition of images
   during the period can be set by the operator, for example, the frequency can be at least
   every about 1 msec, about 5 msec, about 10 msec, about 20 msec, about 50 msec, about
10 100 msec, about 125 msec, about 250 msec, or more. The length of the interval is set by
   the operator to be triggered by an event, such as a cardiac R wave, with the length of the
   interval is defined by the number of time bins desired per R wave to R wave interval.
   Those of skill in the art will be familiar with the concept and methods of gated image
   acquisition and can use known methods to obtain gated images using imaging agent 1 as
15 an imaging agent.
            Image acquisition in gated imaging can be triggered at specific intervals, for
   example, image acquisition can be triggered using an EKG of the heart. In a non
   limiting example, an R wave-gated scanner may trigger acquisition of an image and the
   mean length of time between one R wave of a heart and the next can be stored. The
20 number of images to collect can then be determined. For example, a first image can be
   acquired at 125 msec, a second image can be acquired at 250 msec, a third image can be
   acquired at 375 msec, etc. - thus images in that R interval may be acquired at 125 msec
   intervals. When the next R interval begins, the collection of images resets and image
   data is then acquired into the "first" image at 125 msec from that R interval start time,
25 and then into the "second" image collected 250 msec from that R interval start time, etc.
   Thus, within each R interval image acquisition is added into the initial image of the
   series and incremented into successive images in the series so that a sequence of images
   can be collected at a desired frequency with the zero time being reset at the start of each
   R interval. Acquired gated images can be used to provide an image of heart motion and
30 can provide information on heart wall thickness, whether or not one or more sections of
   the heart are not moving or beating (e.g. a wall motion defect). Use of gated imaging
   may provide data with which to judge perfusion of the heart, such as ejection fraction,
   and to visualize and identify reduced, absent, paradoxical or asynchronous wall motion.

                                                - 75
   Use of gated imaging may also provide data with which to improve assessment of
   myocardial perfusion, judge cardiac function and to visualize and identify asynchronous
   wall motion.
            In some cases, PET imaging may be used to assess myocardial viability via the
 5 ability of this technique to demonstrate metabolic consequences of myocardial ischemia.
   Using PET imaging, myocardial segments that are likely to improve after
   revascularization can be identified. In some cases, PET imaging may be used in the
   detection of coronary artery disease and can also serve as an alternative test for subjects
   who cannot undergo treadmill exercise stress testing. In some embodiments, a stress test
10 method (e.g., pharmacological stress, exercise stress) may be employed with PET using
   methods of the invention to qualitatively or quantitatively assess one or more parameters
   of cardiac function during infusion of the imaging agent. Agents for, and methods of,
   inducing stress, for example, using exercise or pharmacological stress are well known in
   the art. Suitable induction of stress can be carried out using established, known agents
15 and methods. Functions usefully measured using methods of the invention include, but
   are not limited to, in various embodiments, imaging of myocardial perfusion, imaging, or
   measurement of ventricular function, and measuring coronary blood flow velocity.
            In some cases, methods for imaging the heart of a subject may include
   administering a first dose of imaging agent 1 to the subject while the subject is at rest,
20 acquiring at least one first image of the heart, followed by subjecting the subject to stress
   (e.g., exercise stress or pharmacological stress) and administering a second dose of
   imaging agent 1 to the subject during the period of stress, and acquiring at least one other
   image of the heart.
            In some embodiments, the dose of imaging agent 1 to be used during exercise
25 induced stress in a rest/stress protocol is greater than that necessary for
   pharmacologically-induced stress with the ratio of exercise-induced stress dose to
   pharmacologically-induced stress dose being greater then or equal to about 1.2, about
   1.3, about 1.4, about 1.5, about 1.6, about 1.7, about 1.8, about 1.9, or greater. With
   respect to pharmacological stress, in some embodiments of the invention that involve
30 rest/stress imaging methods, the dose of imaging agent 1 administered for imaging
   during the pharmacological stress is a minimum of two times the dose of imaging agent 1
   administered for imaging at rest. With respect to exercise stress, in some embodiments
   of the invention that involve rest/stress imaging methods, the dose of imaging agent 1

                                                 - 76
   administered for imaging during the exercise-induced stress is a minimum of three times
   the dose of imaging agent 1 administered for imaging at rest. In some embodiments of
   the invention, for imaging first at rest followed by imaging with stress, the dose of
   imaging agent 1 administered at rest will be lower than the dose of imaging agent 1
 5 administered at stress.
           In some cases, imaging methods of the invention may be completed in a single
   day (e.g., less than about 24 hours, less than about 12 hours, less than about 6 hours, less
   than about 4 hours, less than about 2 hours, less than about 1 hour), as described herein.
   In other cases, methods may be completed in longer periods of time, e.g. over more than
10 about 24 hours, about 36 hours, or about 48 hours.
           Imaging agent 1 may be provided in any suitable form, for example, in a
   pharmaceutically acceptable form. In some cases, imaging agent 1 is included in a
   pharmaceutically acceptable composition. In some embodiments, imaging agent 1 is
   provided as a composition comprising ethanol, sodium ascorbate, and water. In some
15 cases, the composition comprises less than 20 weight% ethanol, less than 15 weight%
   ethanol, less than 10 weight% ethanol, less than 8 weight% ethanol, less than 6 weight%
   ethanol, less than 5 weight% ethanol, less than 4 weight% ethanol, less than 3 weight%
   ethanol, or less ethanol. In some cases, the composition comprises less than 100 mg/mL,
   less than 75 mg/mL, less than 60 mg/mL, less than 50 mg/mL, less than 40 mg/mL, less
20 than 30 mg/mL, or less sodium ascorbate in water. In a particular non-limiting
   embodiment, imaging agent 1 is provided as a solution in water comprising less than 4%
   ethanol and less than 50 mg/mL sodium ascorbate in water.
           An imaging agent 1 composition for injection may be prepared in an injection
   syringe. Imaging agent 1 may be prepared by a radiopharmacy (e.g., using the methods
25 described herein) and/or a PET manufacturing center and provided to a health-care
   professional for administration. In some aspects of the invention, imaging agent 1 is
   provided, for example, in a syringe or other container, with < 50 mg/mL sodium
   ascorbate in water, < 4 wt% ethanol, and about 1 to 14 mCi of imaging agent 1. The
   amount of imaging agent 1 may vary depending on whether a rest or stress dose is being
30 administered. For example, a higher amount of imaging agent 1 may be provided in a
   syringe or container for use in a stress dose administration than provided in a syringe for
   use in a rest administration. A dose of imaging agent 1 may be diluted with saline (e.g.,
   as described herein), if needed to obtain a practical dose volume. For example, if the

                                                - 77
   activity concentration of imaging agent 1 is so high that only 0.1 mL is need for an
   appropriate dose for a subject, the solution can be diluted, e.g., with sterile saline, so the
   syringe contains 0.5 ml to 4 or more ml of an imaging agent 1 solution for
   administration. In some embodiments of the invention, an injection volume for imaging
 5 agent 1 is between 0.5 and 5 ml, 1 and 4 ml, 2 and 3 ml, at least 0.5 ml, 1 ml, 2 ml, 3 ml,
   4 ml, 5 ml, 6 ml, 7 ml, 8 ml, 9 ml, 10 ml, or more. Those of skill in the art will recognize
   how to dilute imaging agent 1 to produce a sufficient dose volume for administration. In
   some aspects of the invention, imaging agent 1 is provided in a container such as a vial,
   bottle, or syringe, and may be transferred, as necessary, into a suitable container, such as
10 a syringe for administration.
            Syringes that include an adsorbent plunger tip may result in 10 to 250% of
   imaging agent 1 activity remaining in the syringe after injection. Syringes lacking an
   adsorbent plunger tip may be used, such as a 3 or 5 mL NORM-JECT (Henke Sass Wolf,
   Dudley, MA) or other equivalent syringe lacking an adsorbent plunger tip. Reduction of
15 adsorption in the syringe can increase the amount of imaging agent 1 that is transferred
   from the syringe and administered to the subject in methods of the invention. A syringe
   used in methods of the invention may comprise imaging agent 1, and be a non-adsorbing,
   or reduced adsorbent syringe. In some embodiments a non-adsorbent or reduced
   adsorbent syringe is a syringe that has been coated or treated to reduce imaging agent 1
20 adsorption. In some embodiments, a non-adsorbent or reduced-adsorbent syringe is a
   syringe that lacks an adsorbent plunger tip. In some embodiments, a syringe used in
   conjunction with the invention adsorbs less than 20%, 19%, 18%, 17%, 16%, 15%, 14%,
   13%, 12%, 11, 1%        , 9%, 8%, 7 %, 6%, 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 1%, or 0.5% of imaging
   agent 1 it contains. In certain aspects of the invention, a syringe that contains imaging
25 agent 1 does not include a rubber or latex tip on the plunger. In some cases a syringe
   used in methods of the invention, includes a plunger that adsorbs less than 20%, 19%,
   18% , 17%, 16%, 15%, 14%, 13%, 12%, 11%, 10%, 9 %, 8 %, 7 %, 6 %,%, %,          4    3%,2%,
   1%, or 0.5% of imaging agent 1 that the syringe contains. A syringe of the invention
   may also comprise sodium ascorbate, ethanol, and water, and certain embodiments of the
30 invention include a syringe containing imaging agent 1 in a solution comprising less than
   4% ethanol and less than 50 mg/mL sodium ascorbate in water. A syringe of the
   invention may be a syringe that is latex free, rubber free, and/or lubricant free. A syringe
   of the invention may contain imaging agent 1 in an amount between about 1.5 and about

                                                - 78
   14 mCi. A syringe of the invention may contain about 20 mCi or less of imaging agent
   1.
            Components of a composition comprising imaging agent 1 may be selected
   depending on the mode of administration to the subject. Various modes of
 5 administration that effectively deliver imaging agents of the invention to a desired tissue,
   cell, organ, or bodily fluid will be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. In some
   embodiments, the imaging agent is administered intravenously (e.g., intravenous bolus
   injection) using methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As used herein, a
   dose that is "administered to a subject" means an amount of the imaging agent, e.g.
10 imaging agent 1, that enters the body of the subject. In some embodiments, due to
   factors such as partial retention of imaging agent such as imaging agent 1 in a syringe,
   tubing, needles, catheter, or other equipment used to administer the imaging agent to a
   subject, the amount of an imaging agent such as imaging agent 1 that is measured or
   determined to be in the a syringe or other equipment prepared for administration may be
15 more than the amount in the dose that is administered to the subject. In some
   embodiments, an injection of an imaging agent is followed by a flushing injection of
   normal saline, into the subject, using the same tubing, needle, port, etc., used for
   administration of imaging agent 1. Flushing may be performed immediately following
   administration of imaging agent 1, or up to 1 min, 2 min, 3 min, 5 min, or more, after the
20 administration. The volume of saline or other agent for flushing may be up to 5 ml, 6 ml,
   7 ml, 8 ml, 9 ml, 10 ml, 15 ml, 20 ml, or more. As will be understood by those of
   ordinary skill in the art, in embodiments where imaging agent 1 is administered using a
   syringe or other container, the true amount of imaging agent 1 administered to the
   subject may be corrected for any imaging agent 1 that remains in the container. For
25 example, the amount of radioactivity remaining in the container, and tubing and needle
   or delivery instrument that carried the imaging agent from the container and into the
   subject can be determined after the imaging agent has been administered to the subject
   and the difference between the starting amount of radioactivity and the amount
   remaining after administration indicates the amount that was delivered into the subject.
30 In some cases, the container or injection device (e.g., catheter, syringe) may be rinsed
   with a solution (e.g., saline solution) following administration of imaging agent 1.
            In some embodiments of the invention, the total amount of imaging agent 1
   administered to a subject over a given period of time, e.g., in one session, is less than or

                                                - 79
   equal to about 50 mCi, less than or equal to 40 mCi, less than or equal to 30 mCi, less
   than or equal to 20 mCi, less than or equal to 18 mCi, less than or equal to 16 mCi, less
   than or equal to 15 mCi, less than or equal to 14 mCi, less than or equal to 13 mCi, less
   than or equal to 12 mCi, less than or equal to 10 mCi, less than or equal to 8 mCi, less
 5 than or equal to 6 mCi, less than or equal to 4 mCi, less than or equal to 2 mCi, less than
   or equal to 1 mCi, less than or equal to 0.5 mCi. The total amount administered may be
   determined based on a single dose or multiple doses administered to a subject within a
   given time period of up to 1 minute, 10 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 6 hours, 12
   hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, or more.
10          Based on radiation dose studies, the desirable maximum dose administered to a
   subject may be based on determining the amount of imaging agent 1 which limits the
   radiation dose to about 5 rem to the critical organ and/or about 1 rem effective dose (ED)
   or lower, as will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. In a particular
   embodiment, the desirable maximum dose or total amount of imaging agent 1
15 administered is less than or equal to about 25 mCi, or less than or equal to about 14 mCi
   over a period of time of up to 30 min, 1 hour, 2 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, 48
   hours, or more. In some embodiments, the maximum dose of imaging agent 1
   administered to a subject may be less than 3.5 ig per 50 kg of body weight per day. That
   is, in some embodiments of the invention, the maximum dose of imaging agent 1
20 administered to a subject may be less than about 0.07 pg of imaging agent 1 per kg of
   body weight per day.
            In some embodiments, methods of the invention include administering to a
   subject a first dose (e.g., rest dose) of imaging agent 1 while the subject is at rest, and
   performing a first PET imaging procedure (e.g., a PET rest imaging procedure) and
25 acquiring at least a first image of a portion of a subject. In some cases, after
   administering an imaging agent such as imaging agent 1 while the subject is at rest, the
   subject may be subjected to stress and during the stress a second dose (e.g., stress dose)
   of an imaging agent such as imaging agent 1 is administered to the subject, and a second
   PET imaging procedure (e.g., a PET stress imaging procedure) is performed on the
30 subject and at least one other image of a portion of the subject may be acquired. The
   above is an example of a method that may be referred to as a rest-stress test. The time
   between the completion of the first PET imaging procedure and administration of the
   second imaging agent dose is referred to as the wait time. In some cases, a rest-stress

                                                   - 80
   test may be completed in a period of time of less than 48 hours, less than 36 hours, less
   than 24 hours, less than 12 hours, less than 6 hours, less than 5 hours, less than 4 hours,
   less than 3 hours, less than 2 hours, less than 1 hour, less than 30 minutes, or less.
            In some embodiments, the amount of imaging agent 1 administered in a first dose
 5 to a subject at rest (e.g., rest dose in a rest-stress test) is between about 1 mCi and about
   5 mCi, between about 2 mCi and about 4 mCi, between about 2.5 mCi and about 3.5
   mCi, or about 3 mCi. Following administration of the first dose of imaging agent 1, a
   PET imaging procedure may be performed and at least one first image may be acquired
   of at least a portion of the subject.
10          In some cases, the amount of imaging agent 1 administered to a subject during
   stress may be based on the amount of imaging agent 1 administered to the subject at rest.
   That is, the dosing during stress may be based, at least in part, on a dosing ratio (DR)
   (e.g., ratio of stress-dose to rest-dose). The DR may depend on numerous factors as will
   be known to those of ordinary skill in the art, and in some cases, may depend on the
15 method of inducing stress in the subject. In some cases, the DR is between 1 and 5,
   between 1 and 4, between 1 and 3, between 2 and 5, or between 2 and 4. In some cases,
   the DR is at least 1, at least 1.5, at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, or at least 5. In some
   cases, the DR is between 2.5 and 5.0, or 2.5 and 4.0, or 3.0 and 4.0, or 3.0 and 5.0 times
   greater than the first dose of the imaging agent. In some cases, the DR required for a
20 subject subjected to exercise stress is more than the DR and/or time interval used for a
   subject subjected to pharmacological stress. This may be due, in part, to a lower net
   myocardial uptake of radioactivity with exercise. In some cases, the DR employed for a
   subject subjected to exercise stress is between 2 and 4, between 2.5 and 3.5, or at least
   3.0, at least 3.5, at least 4.0, or more, in embodiments wherein the wait time is at least 15
25 minutes 30 minutes, 1 hour, 1.5 hours, 2 hours, or the like. In some cases, the DR
   employed for a subject subjected to pharmacological stress is between 1 and 3, or
   between 1.5 and 2.5, or at least 2.0, at least 2.2, or at least 2.5, or more, in embodiments
   wherein the wait time is at least 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 1.5 hours, 2 hours, or
   the like. In a particular embodiment, for a subject subjected to pharmacological stress, a
30 DR of at least 2.2 for a wait time of at least 15 minutes or at least 30 minutes is
   employed, and/or for a subject subjected to exercise stress, a DR of at least 3.0 for a wait
   time of at least 30 minutes or at least 1 hour is employed.

                                               - 81
           In some cases, the imaging agent is between about 2.0 mCi and about 3.5 mCi, or
   2.4 mCi to about 2.9 mCi, or between about 2.5 mCi to about 3.0 mCi, or between about
   2.5 mCi and about 3.5 mCi.
           In a particular embodiment, for pharmacological stress (e.g., vasodilator stress
 5 induced by administration of adenosine or regadenoson), a dose of about 2.9 mCi to
   about 3.4 mCi rest is provided during rest, and a dose of about 2.0 to about 2.4 times the
   rest dose is provided during stress, with a wait time of at least about 15 minutes or at
   least about 30 minutes.
   In some cases, the second dose of the imaging agent is between about 5.7 mCi and about
10 6.2 mCi, or between about 6.0 mCi and about 6.5 mCi, and about 5.7 mCi and about 6.5
   mCi.
           In another embodiment, for exercise stress, a dose of about 1.7 mCi to about 2.0
   mCi is provided during rest, and a dose of about 3.0 to about 3.6 times the rest dose is
   provided during stress, with a wait time of at least about 30 minute or at least about 60
15 minutes. In some cases, the second dose of the imaging agent is between about 8.6 mCi
   and about 9.0 mCi, or between about 9.0 and about 9.5 mCi, or between about 8.6 mCi
   and about 9.5 mCi.
           In another embodiment, for pharmacological stress, a dose of between about 2.4
   mCi and about 2.9 mCi is administered during rest, and a dose between about 5.7 mCi
20 and about 6.2 mCi is administered during stress (e.g., DR of at least about 2), wherein
   the wait time is at least about 15 minutes or at least about 30 minutes. In another
   embodiment, for exercise stress, a dose of between about 1.7 mCi and about 2.0 mCi is
   administered during rest, and a dose of between about 8.6 mCi and about 9.0 mCi is
   administered during stress (e.g., DR at least about 3), wherein the wait time is at least 30
25 minutes or at least 60 minutes.
           In a particular embodiment, for pharmacological stress, a dose of about 2.9 mCi
   to about 3.3 mCi rest is provided during rest, and a dose of 2.0 to 2.4 times the rest dose
   is provided during stress, with a wait time of at least 15 minutes or at least 30 minutes.
   In another embodiment, for exercise stress, a dose of about 2.9 mCi to about 3.3 mCi is
30 provided during rest, and a dose of 3.0 to 3.6 times the rest dose is provided during
   stress, with a wait time of at least 30 minute or at least 60 minutes.
           In yet another embodiment, for pharmacological stress, a dose of about 2.5 mCi
   to about 3.0 mCi rest is provided during rest and a dose about 6 mCi to about 6.5 mCi is

                                                - 82
   provided during stress. In still yet another embodiment, for exercise stress, a dose of
   about 2.5 mCi to about 3.0 mCi rest is provided during rest and a dose about 9 mCi to
   about 9.5 mCi is provided during stress.
            In some embodiments, administering during the stress includes beginning
 5 administering the second dose within a period of time after completing the rest imaging
   procedure (e.g., the wait period). In some cases, the second dose may be administered at
   a period of time of at least 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 20 minutes, 30 minutes,
   40 minutes, 45 minutes, 50 minutes, 60 minutes, 70 minutes, 80 minutes, 90 minutes, 2
   hours, 4 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, or greater, after completing the rest imaging
10 procedure. In some cases, the second dose is administered at a time period of between 5
   minutes and 30 days, between 5 minutes and 20 days, between 5 minutes and 10 days,
   between 5 minutes and 5 days, between 5 minutes and 4 days, between 5 minutes and 3
   days, between 5 minutes and 48 hours, between 5 minutes and 24 hours, between 5
   minutes and 12 hours, between 5 minutes and 2 hours, between 5 minutes and 90
15 minutes, between 10 minutes and 60 minutes after completing the rest imaging
   procedure.
            For stress testing in methods of the invention, a subject may be subjected to stress
   using procedures known to those of ordinary skill in the art. In some cases, the subject
   may be subjected to stress using procedures including exercise stress and/or
20 pharmacological stress. Pharmacological stress may be induced by administering to the
   subject a pharmacological agent such as a vasodilator. Examples of useful
   pharmacological stress agents, include, but are not limited to adenosine, dobutamine,
   dipyridamole, regadenoson, binodeneson, apadeneson, and other adenosine A2a receptor
   agonists. Dosing and administration of pharmacological stress inducing agents, such as
25 vasodilators, are well known in the art and can be determined for use in conjunction with
   methods and systems of the invention. Exercise stress may be induced using a treadmill,
   exercise bicycle, hand crank, or other equipment suitable to increase a subject's heart
   rate through increased exertion.
            In some embodiments of the invention a rest/stress method is followed. In a
30 rest/stress method a period of rest and imaging is followed by a period of stress and
   imaging, with the order being rest first, followed by stress. In certain embodiments of
   the invention, a stress/rest method may be used. In a stress/rest method, a period of
   stress and imaging is followed by a period of rest and imaging, with the order being

                                                - 83
   stress first, followed by rest. In some aspects of the invention, imaging agent 1 can be
   used in a "stress only" method, in which stress is induced in a subject for imaging with
   imaging agent 1 with no rest imaging during the subject session. In some embodiments
   of the invention, imaging agent 1 can be used in a "rest only" method, in which a subject
 5 does not undergo stress induction, but is only imaged with imaging agent 1 at rest in that
   session.
   Exemplary Cassettes and Reaction Systems
            In some embodiments, systems, methods, kits, and cassettes are provided for the
10 synthesis of an imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1). In some embodiments, an imaging
   agent may be prepared using an automated reaction system comprising a disposable or
   single use cassette. The cassette may comprise all the non-radioactive reagents, solvents,
   tubing, valves, reaction vessels, and other apparatus and/or components necessary to
   carry out the preparation of a given batch of imaging agent. The cassette allows the
15 reaction system to have the flexibility to make a variety of different imaging agents with
   minimal risk of cross-contamination, by simply changing the cassette. By the term
   "cassette" is meant a piece of apparatus designed to fit removably and interchangeably
   onto automated reaction systems, in such a way that mechanical movement of moving
   parts of the automated reaction system controls the operation of the cassette from outside
20 the cassette, ie., externally. In certain embodiments, a cassette comprises a linear
   arrangement of valves, each linked to a port where various reagents, cartridges, syringes,
   and/or vials can be attached, by either needle puncture of a septum-sealed vial, or by gas
   tight, marrying joints. Each valve may have a male-female joint which interfaces with a
   corresponding moving arm of the automated synthesizer. External rotation of the arm
25 can control the opening or closing of the valve when the cassette is attached to the
   automated reaction system. Additional moving parts of the automated reaction system
   are designed to clip onto syringe plunger tips, and thus raise or depress syringe barrels.
   An automated reaction system may further include a controller and one or more
   controllable valves in electrical communication with the controller. An automated
30 reaction system may also include additional vessels, valves, sensors, heaters,
   pressurizing elements, etc., in electrical communication with the controller. An
   automated reaction system may be operated by a controller using suitable software for
   control of valve openings and closings, heating, cooling, pressure levels, fluid

                                               - 84
   movement, flow rate, etc. The automated reaction system may optionally include a
   computer operating system, software, controls, etc., or other component. In addition, the
   automated reaction system may comprise a mount for the cassette.
           Examples of automated reaction systems (e.g., a nucleophilic reaction system),
 5 include, but are not limited to, the Explora GN or RN synthesis system (Siemens
   Medical Solutions USA, Inc.), GE-Tracerlab-MX synthesis system (GE Healthcare),
   Eckert & Zeigler Modular-Lab Synthesis system, etc., which are commonly available at
   PET manufacturing facilities.
           The automated reaction systems may carry-out numerous steps, as outlined in
                                                               18
10 Figure 6, including, but not limited to, preparation of the    F fluoride species, providing
   an imaging agent precursor, optionally in a solution (e.g., as described herein, for
   example, imaging agent precursor 1 in acetonitrile), a radiolabeling reaction (e.g.,
                   18
   reaction of the   F species and the imaging agent precursor to form the imaging agent)
   optionally in a synthesis module, purification (e.g., by preparative HPLC), solvent
15 exchange (e.g., by SepPak), aseptic filtration, and release into a container. For example,
   see Examples 9, 10, and 11.
           In some embodiments, the automated reaction system may make use of a cassette
   comprising a reaction module in fluid connection with a purification module and/or a
   formulation module. Figures 7 and 8 show schematic representations of cassettes in
20 connection with exemplary reaction systems for synthesizing an imaging agent
   comprising a reaction module, a purification module, and/or a formulation module.
           For example, the reaction module may include a reaction chamber in which
   conversion of the imaging agent precursor to the imaging agent is performed. The
                                                                        18
   reaction module may include a source of a fluoride species (e.g.,      F), a source of the
25 imaging agent precursor, a source of an additive (e.g., salt additive), and other sources of
   additional components such as solvents, each of which may optionally be fluidly
   connected to the reaction chamber. The reaction module may also comprise an anion
   exchange column for purification of the fluoride species, prior to introduction into the
   reaction chamber.
30         Upon reaction, the resulting imaging agent product is transferred from the
   reaction module to the purification module for further processing, treatment, and/or
   purification. The purification module may include, for example, a column (e.g., an
   HPLC column) fluidly connected to one or more sources of solvents to be used as

                                                 - 85
   eluents. The purification module may further comprise a source of a stabilizing agent
   (e.g., ascorbic acid or a salt thereof), which may be added to the imaging agent upon
   purification (e.g., by HPLC). The purified imaging agent is then transferred to the
   formulation module, where further purification and formulation may be performed. The
 5 formulation module may include a filter for aseptic filtration and/or a C-18 column for
   solvent exchange.
            In another embodiment, a cassette comprises a reaction module and a formulation
   module. A reaction module of the invention may include a source of 18F, a filter to
   remove unreacted [ 180]H 20, a source of an ammonium salt, a source for a diluent for the
10 18F,  a source for an imaging agent precursor, (e.g., imaging agent precursor 1 shown in
   Figure 1, or other imaging agent precursor), a source for an H 2 0 diluent for the imaging
                                                        18
   agent precursor, a reaction vessel for reacting the     F and the imaging agent precursor, a
   solid phase extraction column (e.g., a C18 column, or other suitable column) in fluid
   communication with the reaction vessel. The solid phase extraction column includes a
15 solid sorbent to adsorb the radiolabeled imaging agent product on the sorbent. At least a
   portion of the residual reaction impurities pass through solid phase extraction column
   without adsorbing on the sorbent. The reaction module also includes a source of wash
   solutions in fluid communication with the solid phase extraction column for providing
   wash solutions to elute the remaining impurities on the sorbent, and includes a source of
20 an eluent (e.g., as H 2 0/MeCN, or other suitable eluent) in fluid communication with the
   solid phase extraction column for eluting the radiolabeled imaging agent product off the
   sorbent. The reaction module may also include a source of a diluent for the eluted
   radiolabeled imaging agent.
            A formulation module of an apparatus of the invention may be in fluid
25 communication with a reaction module and may include a solid phase extraction
   cartridge that includes a solid sorbent (e.g., C-18, or other suitable sorbent) to adsorb the
   diluted radiolabeled imaging agent, a source of wash solutions (e.g., comprising ascorbic
   acid, a salt thereof, or other suitable wash solution) in fluid communication with the solid
   phase extraction cartridge for providing wash solutions to wash off any remaining
30 impurities on the sorbent, and a source of eluting fluid (e.g., ethanol, or other suitable
   eluting fluid) in fluid communication with the solid phase extraction cartridge for eluting
   the radiolabeled imaging agent product off the sorbent. The formulation module may
   also include a source of a diluent (e.g., comprising ascorbic acid, a salt thereof, or other

                                                - 86
   suitable diluent), for diluting the eluted radiolabeled imaging agent. The formulation
   module may also be in fluid communication with a sterilizing filter (e.g., a Millipore
   Millex GV PVDF sterilizing filter, or other suitable sterilizing filter).
           In a particular embodiment, a cassette is provided for use with an automated
 5 synthesis module, for example, a GE TRACERlab MX synthesis module. In one
   embodiment, a cassette comprises a disposable sterilized assembly of molded stopcock
   manifolds specifically designed for use with the automated synthesis module (e.g., GE
   TRACERlab MX synthesis module). Individual manifolds are connected in a linear or
   non-linear fashion to form a directional array that dictates the flow path of reagents used in
10 the preparation of an imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) injection. In some
   embodiments, the main body of the cassette contains at least one manifold comprising a
   plurality of manifold positions (e.g., stockcocks). For example, the main body may
   comprise at least one, two, three, four or more, manifolds. The cassette may comprise
   between 1 to 20 manifold positions, between 1 to 15 manifold positions, between 5 and 20
15 manifold positions, between 5 and 15 manifold positions. Each of the manifolds may or
   may not be symmetrical. In one embodiment, the main body of the cassette contains three
   plastic manifolds each fitted with five standard molded stopcocks, thereby having a total of
   15 total manifold positions. Individual stopcocks are adapted with luer fittings to
   accommodate solvents, reagents, syringes, tubing required for gas and liquid handling, etc.
20 The stopcocks are adapted for solvents and reagents and may be fitted with plastic spikes
   upon which inverted punch vials are located, while those featuring tubing and syringes are
   fitted with male luer connections according to function. In some embodiments, the
   cassette comprises a linear arrangement of a plurality of stopcock manifolds connected
   one or more of the components selected from the group consisting of a gas inlet, anion
25 exchange cartridge, C-18 cartridge, syringe, solvent reservoir, reaction vessel, HPLC
   system, collection vessel, reservoir for solution of ascorbic acid or salt thereof, and
   exhaust outlet. In some cases, the cassette further comprises tubing. In some cases, the
   cassette further comprising an imaging agent synthesis module, wherein the apparatus is
   fluidically connected to the cassette. In some cases, the apparatus is capable carrying out
30 the method of synthesizing an imaging agent as described herein (e.g., a method of
   synthesizing imaging agent 1).
           The cassette configuration required for the preparation of imaging 1 injection is
   depicted in Figure 8. The following provides a description of the attachments to each of

                                                 - 87
   the 15 manifold positions: 1) luer connection (2) - gas inlet and [ 18 0]H 20 recovery; 2)
   anion exchange cartridge - QMA Light; 3) spike connection - MeCN; 4) syringe - empty;
   5) spike connection - imaging agent precursor 1; 6) luer connection - reaction vessel; 7)
   HPLC inlet; 8) spike connection - ascorbic acid; 9) luer connection - collection vessel; 10)
 5 syringe - EtOH; 11) luer connection - final product vial; 12) spike connection - SWFI;
   13) spike connection - ascorbic acid; 14) syringe - empty; 15) luer connection (2)
   reaction vessel and exhaust. Manifold one (stopcocks 1-5) is joined to manifold two
   (stopcocks 6-10) using two male luer connections fitted with a short length of silicon
   tubing. Manifold two is connected to manifold three (stopcocks 11-15) using a C-18 Sep
10 Pak@ and the appropriate luer adapters. Individual manifold connections, luer fittings and
   all silicon tubing are readily available from commercial suppliers.
             In some embodiments, the present invention provides a cassette for the
   preparation of an imaging agent comprising the formula:
                                        0
                               t-BuN
                                             CI
                                     N
                                                                Nel18 F
15 comprising: (i) a vessel containing an imaging agent precursor comprising the formula:
                                       0
                              t-Bu'N
                                            CI
                                                      0 ' 0  '     OTs
   and (ii) a conduit for adding a source of   18F.
   PharmaceuticalCompositions
20           Once an imaging agent or an imaging agent precursor has been prepared or
   obtained, it may be combined with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients
   to form a pharmaceutical composition that is suitable for administering to a subject,
   including a human. As would be appreciated by one of skill in this art, the excipients
   may be chosen, for example, based on the route of administration as described below, the
25 agent being delivered, time course of delivery of the agent, and/or the health/condition of
   the subject.
             Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention and for use in accordance
   with the present invention may include a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or

                                                - 88
   carrier. As used herein, the tenn "pharmaceutically acceptable excipient" or
   "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" means a non-toxic, inert solid, semi-solid or liquid
   filler, diluent, encapsulating material or formulation auxiliary of any type. Some
   examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sugars
 5 such as lactose, glucose, and sucrose; starches such as corn starch and potato starch;
   cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose, and
   cellulose acetate; powdered tragacanth; malt; gelatin; talc; excipients such as cocoa
   butter and suppository waxes; oils such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil; safflower oil;
   sesame oil; olive oil; corn oil and soybean oil; glycols such as propylene glycol; esters
10 such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; agar; detergents such as Tween 80; buffering
   agents such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; alginic acid;
   pyrogen-free water; isotonic saline; Ringer's solution; ethyl alcohol; and phosphate
   buffer solutions, as well as other non-toxic compatible lubricants such as sodium lauryl
   sulfate and magnesium stearate, as well as coloring agents, releasing agents, coating
15 agents, sweetening, flavoring and perfuming agents, preservatives and antioxidants can
   also be present in the composition, according to the judgment of the formulator.
            The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention can be administered to
   humans and/or to animals, parenterally, intranasally, intraperitoneally, or via a nasal
   spray. The mode of administration will vary depending on the intended use, as is well
20 known in the art. Alternatively, formulations of the present invention may be
   administered parenterally as injections (intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous).
   These formulations may be prepared by conventional means, and, if desired, the subject
   compositions may be mixed with any conventional additive.
            Injectable preparations, for example, sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous
25 suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing or
   wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a
   sterile injectable solution, suspension, or emulsion in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable
   diluent or solvent, for example, as a solution in 1,3-butanediol. Among the acceptable
   vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water, Ringer's solution, U.S.P. and
30 isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition, sterile, fixed oils are conventionally
   employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil can
   be employed including synthetic mono- or diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as
   oleic acid are used in the preparation of injectables.

                                                - 89
            The injectable formulations can be sterilized, for example, by filtration through a
   bacteria-retaining filter, or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid
   compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile
   injectable medium prior to use.
 5
   Exemplary Kits
            In some embodiments, systems, methods, kits, and cassettes kits for the
   preparation of an imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) are provided for detecting,
   imaging, and/or monitoring myocardial perfusion. In some embodiments, kits for the
10 administration of an imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) are provided. Kits of the
   invention may include, for example, a container comprising an imaging agent, or an
   imaging agent precursor, and instructions for use. Kits may include a sterile,
   non-pyrogenic, formulation comprising a predetermined amount of an imaging agent
   (e.g., imaging agent 1), and optionally other components. In some aspects of the
15 invention, a kit may include one or more syringes that contain an imaging agent (e.g.,
   imaging agent 1) to be prepared for administration to a subject. A container that may be
   used in conjunction with an imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) (e.g. to deliver and/or
   administer an imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) to a subject) may be a syringe,
   bottle, vial, tubes, etc. Exemplary syringes that may be included in a kit of the invention
20 are syringes lacking an adsorbent plunger tip, such as a 3 or 5 mL NORM-JECT (Henke
   Sass Wolf, Dudley, MA), or other equivalent syringe lacking an adsorbent plunger tip.
   An imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) may be provided in a kit and additional
   preparations before use may optionally include diluting the imaging agent to a usable
   concentration. Instructions in a kit of the invention may relate to methods for, methods
25 of diluting the imaging agent, methods of administering the imaging agent to a subject
   for diagnostic imaging, or other instructions for use.
            In some cases, a kit can also include one or more vials containing a diluent for
   preparing an imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) composition for administration to a
   subject (e.g., human). A diluent vial may contain a diluent such as physiological saline,
30 water, buffered solution, etc. for diluting an imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1). For
   example, the imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1)may be packaged in a kit in a ready
   to-inject formulation, or may require some reconstitution or dilution whereby a final
   composition/formulation for injection or infusion is prepared.

                                                - 90
           Instructions in a kit of the invention may also include instructions for
   administering the imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) to a subject and may include
   information on dosing, timing, stress induction, etc. For example, a kit may include an
   imaging agent described herein, along with instructions describing the intended
 5 application and the proper administration of the agent. As used herein, "instructions" can
   define a component of instruction and/or promotion, and typically involve written
   instructions on or associated with packaging of the invention. Instructions also can
   include any oral or electronic instructions provided in any manner such that a user will
   clearly recognize that the instructions are to be associated with the kit, for example,
10 audiovisual ( e.g. , videotape, DVD, etc.), Internet, and/or web-based communications,
   etc. The written instructions may be in a form prescribed by a governmental agency
   regulating the manufacture, use or sale of pharmaceuticals or biological products, which
   instructions can also reflects approval by the agency of manufacture, use or sale for
   human administration. In some cases, the instructions can include instructions for
15 mixing a particular amount of the diluent with a particular amount of a concentrated
   solution of the imaging agent or a solid preparation of the imaging agent, whereby a final
   formulation for injection or infusion is prepared for example, such that the resulting
   solution is at a suitable concentration for administration to a subject (e.g., at a
   concentration as described herein). A kit may include a whole treatment regimen of the
20 inventive compound (e.g., a rest dose and a stress dose).
           The kit may contain any one or more of the components described herein in one
   or more containers. As an example, in one embodiment, the kit may include instructions
   for mixing one or more components of the kit and/or isolating and mixing a sample and
   applying to a subject. The kit may include a container housing an agent described
25 herein. The agent may be in the form of a liquid, gel or solid (powder). The agent may
   be prepared sterilely, packaged in syringe and shipped refrigerated. Alternatively it may
   be housed in a vial or other container for storage. A second container may have other
   agents prepared sterilely. Alternatively the kit may include an active agent premixed and
   shipped in a syringe, vial, tube, or other container. The kit may have one or more or all
30 of the components required to administer the agents to a patient, such as a syringe,
   topical application devices, or iv needle tubing and bag.
           It also will be understood that containers containing the components of a kit of
   the invention, whether the container is a bottle, a vial (e.g., with a septum), an ampoule,

                                                - 91
   an infusion bag, or the like, can include additional indicia such as conventional markings
   that change color when the preparation has been autoclaved or otherwise sterilized. A kit
   of the invention may further include other components, such as syringes, labels, vials,
   tubing, catheters, needles, ports, and the like. In some aspect of the invention, a kit may
 5 include a single syringe containing the imaging agent (e.g., imaging agent 1) sufficient
   for administration and in some aspects of the invention a kit may include two separate
   syringes, one comprising imaging agent 1 to be administered to a subject for rest
   imaging, and a second syringe comprising imaging agent 1 for administration to a
   subject for stress imaging.
10         Buffers useful in the preparation of imaging agents and kits include, for example,
   phosphate, citrate, sulfosalicylate, and acetate buffers. A more complete list can be
   found in the United States Pharmacopoeia. Lyophilization aids useful in the preparation
   of imaging agents and kits include, for example, mannitol, lactose, sorbitol, dextran,
   FICOLL* polymer, and polyvinylpyrrolidine (PVP). Stabilization aids useful in the
15 preparation of imaging agents and kits include, for example, ascorbic acid, cysteine,
   monothioglycerol, sodium bisulfite, sodium metabisulfite, gentisic acid, and inositol.
   Solubilization aids useful in the preparation of imaging agents and kits include, for
   example, ethanol, glycerin, polyethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polyoxyethylene
   sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monoloeate, polysorbates, poly(oxyethylene)
20 poly(oxypropylene)-poly(oxyethylene) block copolymers ("Pluronics") and lecithin. In
   certain embodiments, the solubilizing aids are polyethylene glycol, cyclodextrins, and
   Pluronics. Bacteriostats useful in the preparation of imaging agents and kits include, for
   example, benzyl alcohol, benzalkonium chloride, chlorbutanol, and methyl, propyl, or
   butyl paraben.
25
   Definitions
           For convenience, certain terms employed in the specification, examples, and
   appended claims are listed here.
           Definitions of specific functional groups and chemical terms are described in
30 more detail below. For purposes of this invention, the chemical elements are identified
   in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of
   Chemistry and Physics, 75th Ed., inside cover, and specific functional groups are
   generally defined as described therein. Additionally, general principles of organic

                                                  - 92
   chemistry, as well as specific functional moieties and reactivity, are described in
   "Organic Chemistry," Thomas Sorrell, University Science Books, Sausalito: 1999, the
   entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
            Certain compounds of the present invention may exist in particular geometric or
 5 stereoisomeric forms. The present invention contemplates all such compounds,
   including cis- and trans-isomers,R- and S-enantiomers, diastereomers, (D)-isomers, (L)
   isomers, the racemic mixtures thereof, and other mixtures thereof, as falling within the
   scope of the invention. Additional asymmetric carbon atoms may be present in a
   substituent such as an alkyl group. All such isomers, as well as mixtures thereof, are
10 intended to be included in this invention.
            Isomeric mixtures containing any of a variety of isomer ratios may be utilized in
   accordance with the present invention. For example, where only two isomers are
   combined, mixtures containing 50:50, 60:40, 70:30, 80:20, 90:10, 95:5, 96:4, 97:3, 98:2,
   99:1, or 100:0 isomer ratios are all contemplated by the present invention. Those of
15 ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that analogous ratios are contemplated for
   more complex isomer mixtures.
            If, for instance, a particular enantiomer of a compound of the present invention is
   desired, it may be prepared by asymmetric synthesis, or by derivation with a chiral
   auxiliary, where the resulting diastereomeric mixture is separated and the auxiliary group
20 cleaved to provide the pure desired enantiomers. Alternatively, where the molecule
   contains a basic functional group, such as amino, or an acidic functional group, such as
   carboxyl, diastereomeric salts are formed with an appropriate optically-active acid or
   base, followed by resolution of the diastereomers thus formed by fractional
   crystallization or chromatographic means well known in the art, and subsequent recovery
25 of the pure enantiomers.
            As used herein, the term "alkyl" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and
   refers to the radical of saturated aliphatic groups, including straight-chain alkyl groups,
   branched-chain alkyl groups, cycloalkyl (alicyclic) groups, alkyl substituted cycloalkyl
   groups, and cycloalkyl substituted alkyl groups. In some cases, the alkyl group may be a
30 lower alkyl group, i.e., an alkyl group having I to 10 carbon atoms (e.g., methyl, ethyl,
   propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, or decyl, etc.). In some embodiments, a
   straight chain or branched chain alkyl may have 30 or fewer carbon atoms in its
   backbone, and, in some cases, 20 or fewer. In some embodiments, a straight chain or

                                                   - 93
   branched chain alkyl may have 12 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone (e.g., CI-C       12
   for straight chain, C3 -C12 for branched chain), 6 or fewer, or 4 or fewer. Likewise,
   cycloalkyls may have from 3-10 carbon atoms in their ring structure, or 5, 6 or 7 carbons
   in the ring structure. Examples of alkyl groups include, but are not limited to, methyl,
 5 ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, cyclopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, t-butyl, cyclobutyl, hexyl,
   cyclochexyl, and the like.
            The terms "alkenyl" and "alkynyl" are given their ordinary meaning in the art and
   refer to unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the
   alkyls described above, but that contain at least one double or triple bond respectively.
10          In certain embodiments, the alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl groups employed in the
   invention contain 1-20 aliphatic carbon atoms. In certain other embodiments, the alkyl,
   alkenyl, and alkynyl groups employed in the invention contain 1-10 aliphatic carbon
   atoms. In yet other embodiments, the alkyl, alkenyl, and alkynyl groups employed in the
   invention contain 1-8 aliphatic carbon atoms. In still other embodiments, the alkyl,
15 alkenyl, and alkynyl groups employed in the invention contain 1-6 aliphatic carbon
   atoms. In yet other embodiments, the alkyl, alkenyl, and alkynyl groups employed in the
   invention contain 1-4 carbon atoms. Illustrative aliphatic groups thus include, but are not
   limited to, for example, methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, allyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl,
   isobutyl, t-butyl, n-pentyl, sec-pentyl, isopentyl, t-pentyl, n-hexyl, sec-hexyl, moieties
20 and the like, which again, may bear one or more substituents. Alkenyl groups include,
   but are not limited to, for example, ethenyl, propenyl, butenyl, 1-methyl-2-buten-1-yl,
   and the like. Representative alkynyl groups include, but are not limited to, ethynyl, 2
   propynyl (propargyl), 1-propynyl and the like.
            The term "cycloalkyl," as used herein, refers specifically to groups having three
25 to ten, preferably three to seven carbon atoms. Suitable cycloalkyls include, but are not
   limited to cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl and the like,
   which, as in the case of other aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, or hetercyclic moieties, may
   optionally be substituted with substituents including, but not limited to aliphatic;
   heteroaliphatic; aryl; heteroaryl; arylalkyl; heteroarylalkyl; alkoxy; aryloxy;
30 heteroalkoxy; heteroaryloxy; alkylthio; arylthio; heteroalkylthio; heteroarylthio; -F; -Cl;
   -Br; -I; -OH; -NO 2 ; -CN; -CF 3 ; -CH 2 CF 3 ; -CHCl 2; -CH 2OH; -CH 2CH 2OH; -CH 2NH 2 ;
   CH 2 SO 2 CH3; -C(O)Rx; -CO 2 (R,); -CON(Rx) 2; -OC(O)Rx; -OCO 2 Rx; -OCON(Rx) 2;
   N(Rx) 2 ; -S(O) 2 Rx; -NRx(CO)Rx, wherein each occurrence of Rx independently includes,

                                                 - 94
   but is not limited to, aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, aryl, heteroaryl, arylalkyl, or
   heteroarylalkyl, wherein any of the aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, arylalkyl, or
   heteroarylalkyl substituents described above and herein may be substituted or
   unsubstituted, branched or unbranched, cyclic or acyclic, and wherein any of the aryl or
 5 heteroaryl substituents described above and herein may be substituted or unsubstituted.
   Additional examples of generally applicable substitutents are illustrated by the specific
   embodiments shown in the Examples that are described herein.
           The term "heteroalkyl" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to an
10 alkyl group as described herein in which one or more carbon atoms is replaced by a
   heteroatom. Suitable heteroatoms include oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, and the
   like. Examples of heteroalkyl groups include, but are not limited to, alkoxy, amino,
   thioester, poly(ethylene glycol), alkyl-substituted amino, tetrahydrofuranyl, piperidinyl,
   morpholinyl, etc.
15         The terms "heteroalkenyl" and "heteroalkynyl" are given their ordinary meaning
   in the art and refer to unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible
   substitution to the heteroalkyls described above, but that contain at least one double or
   triple bond respectively.
           Some examples of substituents of the above-described aliphatic (and other)
20 moieties of compounds of the invention include, but are not limited to aliphatic;
   heteroaliphatic; aryl; heteroaryl; alkylaryl; alkylheteroaryl; alkoxy; aryloxy;
   heteroalkoxy; heteroaryloxy; alkylthio; arylthio; heteroalkylthio; heteroarylthio; F; Cl;
   Br; I; -OH; -NO 2 ; -CN; -CF 3; -CHF 2 ; -CH 2F; -CH 2CF 3; -CHC1 2; -CH 2OH; -CH 2CH 2OH;
   -CH 2NH 2; -CH 2 SO 2 CH 3 ; -C(O)Rx; -CO 2(Rx); -CON(Rx) 2 ; -OC(O)Rx; -OCO 2 Rx;
25 OCON(Rx) 2; -N(Rx) 2; -S(O) 2 Rx; -NRx(CO)Rx wherein each occurrence of Rx
   independently includes, but is not limited to, aliphatic, alycyclic, heteroaliphatic,
   heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, or alkylheteroaryl, wherein any of the aliphatic,
   heteroaliphatic, alkylaryl, or alkylheteroaryl substituents described above and herein may
   be substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched, cyclic or acyclic, and wherein
30 any of the aryl or heteroaryl substituents described above and herein may be substituted
   or unsubstituted. Additional examples of generally applicable substituents are illustrated
   by the specific embodiments shown in the Examples that are described herein.

                                                - 95
           The term "aryl" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to aromatic
   carbocyclic groups, optionally substituted, having a single ring (e.g., phenyl), multiple
   rings (e.g., biphenyl), or multiple fused rings in which at least one is aromatic (e.g.,
   1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthyl, naphthyl, anthryl, or phenanthryl). That is, at least one ring
 5 may have a conjugated pi electron system, while other, adjoining rings can be
   cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or heterocyclyls. The aryl group
   may be optionally substituted, as described herein. Substituents include, but are not
   limited to, any of the previously mentioned substitutents, i.e., the substituents recited for
   aliphatic moieties, or for other moieties as disclosed herein, resulting in the formation of
10 a stable compound. In some cases, an aryl group is a stable mono- or polycyclic
   unsaturated moieties having preferably 3-14 carbon atoms, each of which may be
   substituted or unsubstituted. "Carbocyclic aryl groups" refer to aryl groups wherein the
   ring atoms on the aromatic ring are carbon atoms. Carbocyclic aryl groups include
   monocyclic carbocyclic aryl groups and polycyclic or fused compounds (e.g., two or
15 more adjacent ring atoms are common to two adjoining rings) such as naphthyl groups.
           The terms "heteroaryl" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to aryl
   groups comprising at least one heteroatom as a ring atom. A "heteroaryl" is a stable
   heterocyclic or polyheterocyclic unsaturated moieties having preferably 3-14 carbon
   atoms, each of which may be substituted or unsubstituted. Substituents include, but are
20 not limited to, any of the previously mentioned substitutents, i.e., the substituents recited
   for aliphatic moieties, or for other moieties as disclosed herein, resulting in the formation
   of a stable compound. In some cases, a heteroaryl is a cyclic aromatic radical having
   from five to ten ring atoms of which one ring atom is selected from S, 0, and N; zero,
   one, or two ring atoms are additional heteroatoms independently selected from S, 0, and
25 N; and the remaining ring atoms are carbon, the radical being joined to the rest of the
   molecule via any of the ring atoms, such as, for example, pyridyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
   pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, thiazolyl, oxazolyl, isooxazolyl, thiadiazolyl,oxadiazolyl,
   thiophenyl, furanyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, and the like.
           It will also be appreciated that aryl and heteroaryl moieties, as defined herein may
30 be attached via an alkyl or heteroalkyl moiety and thus also include -(alkyl)aryl,
   -(heteroalkyl)aryl, -(heteroalkyl)heteroaryl, and -(heteroalkyl)heteroaryl moieties. Thus,
   as used herein, the phrases "aryl or heteroaryl moieties" and "aryl, heteroaryl,
   (alkyl)aryl, -(heteroalkyl)aryl, -(heteroalkyl)heteroaryl, and -(heteroalkyl)heteroaryl" are

                                                 - 96
   interchangeable. Substituents include, but are not limited to, any of the previously
   mentioned substituents, i.e., the substituents recited for aliphatic moieties, or for other
   moieties as disclosed herein, resulting in the formation of a stable compound.
           It will be appreciated that aryl and heteroaryl groups (including bicyclic aryl
 5 groups) can be unsubstituted or substituted, wherein substitution includes replacement of
   one or more of the hydrogen atoms thereon independently with any one or more of the
   following moieties including, but not limited to: aliphatic; alicyclic; heteroaliphatic;
   heterocyclic; aromatic; heteroaromatic; aryl; heteroaryl; alkylaryl; heteroalkylaryl;
   alkylheteroaryl; heteroalkylheteroaryl; alkoxy; aryloxy; heteroalkoxy; heteroaryloxy;
10 alkylthio; arylthio; heteroalkylthio; heteroarylthio; F; Cl; Br; I; -OH; -NO 2 ; -CN; -CF 3;
   CH 2F; -CHF 2; -CH 2CF 3 ; -CHC12; -CH 2OH; -CH 2CH 2 OH; -CH 2NH 2 ; -CH 2 SO 2 CH 3 ;
   C(O)Rx; -CO 2 (R,); -CON(Rx) 2 ; -OC(O)Rx; -OCO 2 Rx; -OCON(Rx) 2; -N(Rx) 2; -S(O)Rx;
   S(O) 2 Rx; -NRx(CO)Rx wherein each occurrence of Rx independently includes, but is not
   limited to, aliphatic, alicyclic, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aromatic, heteroaromatic,
15 aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, heteroalkylaryl or heteroalkylheteroaryl,
   wherein any of the aliphatic, alicyclic, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, alkylaryl, or
   alkylheteroaryl substituents described above and herein may be substituted or
   unsubstituted, branched or unbranched, saturated or unsaturated, and wherein any of the
   aromatic, heteroaromatic, aryl, heteroaryl, -(alkyl)aryl or -(alkyl)heteroaryl substituents
20 described above and herein may be substituted or unsubstituted. Additionally, it will be
   appreciated, that any two adjacent groups taken together may represent a 4, 5, 6, or 7
   membered substituted or unsubstituted alicyclic or heterocyclic moiety. Additional
   examples of generally applicable substituents are illustrated by the specific embodiments
   described herein.
25          The term "heterocycle" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to refer
   to cyclic groups containing at least one heteroatom as a ring atom, in some cases, 1 to 3
   heteroatoms as ring atoms, with the remainder of the ring atoms being carbon atoms.
   Suitable heteroatoms include oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, and the like. In some
   cases, the heterocycle may be 3- to 10-membered ring structures or 3- to 7-membered
30 rings, whose ring structures include one to four heteroatoms.
            The term "heterocycle" may include heteroaryl groups, saturated heterocycles
   (e.g., cycloheteroalkyl) groups, or combinations thereof. The heterocycle may be a
   saturated molecule, or may comprise one or more double bonds. In some cases, the

                                               - 97
   heterocycle is a nitrogen heterocycle, wherein at least one ring comprises at least one
   nitrogen ring atom. The heterocycles may be fused to other rings to form a polycylic
   heterocycle. The heterocycle may also be fused to a spirocyclic group. In some cases,
   the heterocycle may be attached to a compound via a nitrogen or a carbon atom in the
 5 ring.
            Heterocycles include, for example, thiophene, benzothiophene, thianthrene,
   furan, tetrahydrofuran, pyran, isobenzofuran, chromene, xanthene, phenoxathiin, pyrrole,
   dihydropyrrole, pyrrolidine, imidazole, pyrazole, pyrazine, isothiazole, isoxazole,
   pyridine, pyrazine, pyrimidine, pyridazine, indolizine, isoindole, indole, indazole, purine,
10 quinolizine, isoquinoline, quinoline, phthalazine, naphthyridine, quinoxaline,
   quinazoline, cinnoline, pteridine, carbazole, carboline, triazole, tetrazole, oxazole,
   isoxazole, thiazole, isothiazole, phenanthridine, acridine, pyrimidine, phenanthroline,
   phenazine, phenarsazine, phenothiazine, furazan, phenoxazine, pyrrolidine, oxolane,
   thiolane, oxazole, oxazine, piperidine, homopiperidine (hexamnethyleneimine),
15 piperazine (e.g., N-methyl piperazine), morpholine, lactones, lactams such as
   azetidinones and pyrrolidinones, sultams, sultones, other saturated and/or unsaturated
   derivatives thereof, and the like. The heterocyclic ring can be optionally substituted at
   one or more positions with such substituents as described herein. In some cases, the
   heterocycle may be bonded to a compound via a heteroatom ring atom (e.g., nitrogen).
20 In some cases, the heterocycle may be bonded to a compound via a carbon ring atom. In
   some cases, the heterocycle is pyridine, imidazole, pyrazine, pyrimidine, pyridazine,
   acridine, acridin-9-amine, bipyridine, naphthyridine, quinoline, benzoquinoline,
   benzoisoquinoline, phenanthridine-1,9-diamine, or the like.
           The terms "halo" and "halogen" as used herein refer to an atom selected from
25 fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine.
           The term "haloalkyl" denotes an alkyl group, as defined above, having one, two,
   or three halogen atoms attached thereto and is exemplified by such groups as
   chloromethyl, bromoethyl, trifluoromethyl, and the like.
           The term "amino," as used herein, refers to a primary (-NH 2), secondary (-NHRx),
30 tertiary (-NRxRy), or quaternary (-Nm RxRyRz) amine, where Rx, Ry and Rz are
   independently an aliphatic, alicyclic, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, or heteroaryl
   moiety, as defined herein. Examples of amino groups include, but are not limited to,

                                                 - 98
   methylamino, dimethylamino, ethylamino, diethylamino, diethylaminocarbonyl,
   methylethylamino, iso-propylamino, piperidino, trimethylamino, and propylamino.
           The term "alkyne" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to branched
   or unbranched unsaturated hydrocarbon groups containing at least one triple bond. Non
 5 limiting examples of alkynes include acetylene, propyne, 1-butyne, 2-butyne, and the
   like. The alkyne group may be substituted and/or have one or more hydrogen atoms
   replaced with a functional group, such as a hydroxyl, halogen, alkoxy, and/or aryl group.
           The term "alkoxy" (or "alkyloxy"), or "thioalkyl" as used herein refers to an alkyl
   group, as previously defined, attached to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen
10 atom or through a sulfur atom. In certain embodiments, the alkyl group contains 1-20
   aliphatic carbon atoms. In certain other embodiments, the alkyl group contains 1-10
   aliphatic carbon atoms. In yet other embodiments, the alkyl, alkenyl, and alkynyl groups
   employed in the invention contain 1-8 aliphatic carbon atoms. In still other
   embodiments, the alkyl group contains 1-6 aliphatic carbon atoms. In yet other
15 embodiments, the alkyl group contains 1-4 aliphatic carbon atoms. Examples of alkoxy,
   include but are not limited to, methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy, n-butoxy, t
   butoxy, neopentoxy and n-hexoxy. Examples of thioalkyl include, but are not limited to,
   methylthio, ethylthio, propylthio, isopropylthio, n-butylthio, and the like.
           The term "aryloxy" refers to the group, -0-aryl. The term "acyloxy" refers to the
20 group, -0-acyl.
           The term "alkoxyalkyl" refers to an alkyl group substituted with at least one
   alkoxy group (e.g., one, two, three, or more, alkoxy groups). For example, an
   alkoxyalkyl group may be -(C 1 6 -alkyl)-O-(CI- 6 -alkyl), optionally substituted. In some
   cases, the alkoxyalkyl group may be optionally substituted with another alkyoxyalkyl
25 group (e.g., -(Ci. 6-alkyl)-O-(Ci. 6-alkyl)-O-(Ci. 6 -alkyl) , optionally substituted.
           It will be appreciated that the above groups and/or compounds, as described
   herein, may be optionally substituted with any number of substituents or functional
   moieties. That is, any of the above groups may be optionally substituted. As used
   herein, the term "substituted" is contemplated to include all permissible substituents of
30 organic compounds, "permissible" being in the context of the chemical rules of valence
   known to those of ordinary skill in the art. In general, the term "substituted" whether
   preceded by the term "optionally" or not, and substituents contained in formulas of this
   invention, refer to the replacement of hydrogen radicals in a given structure with the

                                               - 99
   radical of a specified substituent. When more than one position in any given structure
   may be substituted with more than one substituent selected from a specified group, the
   substituent may be either the same or different at every position. It will be understood
   that "substituted" also includes that the substitution results in a stable compound, e.g.,
 5 which does not spontaneously undergo transformation such as by rearrangement,
   cyclization, elimination, etc. In some cases, "substituted" may generally refer to
   replacement of a hydrogen with a substituent as described herein. However,
   "substituted," as used herein, does not encompass replacement and/or alteration of a key
   functional group by which a molecule is identified, e.g., such that the "substituted"
10 functional group becomes, through substitution, a different functional group. For
   example, a "substituted phenyl group" must still comprise the phenyl moiety and can not
   be modified by substitution, in this definition, to become, e.g., a pyridine ring. In a
   broad aspect, the permissible substituents include acyclic and cyclic, branched and
   unbranched, carbocyclic and heterocyclic, aromatic and nonaromatic substituents of
15 organic compounds. Illustrative substituents include, for example, those described
   herein. The permissible substituents can be one or more and the same or different for
   appropriate organic compounds. For purposes of this invention, the heteroatoms such as
   nitrogen may have hydrogen substituents and/or any permissible substituents of organic
   compounds described herein which satisfy the valencies of the heteroatoms.
20 Furthermore, this invention is not intended to be limited in any manner by the
   permissible substituents of organic compounds. Combinations of substituents and
   variables envisioned by this invention are preferably those that result in the formation of
   stable compounds useful for the formation of an imaging agent or an imaging agent
   precursor. The term "stable," as used herein, preferably refers to compounds which
25 possess stability sufficient to allow manufacture and which maintain the integrity of the
   compound for a sufficient period of time to be detected and preferably for a sufficient
   period of time to be useful for the purposes detailed herein.
            Examples of substituents include, but are not limited to, halogen, azide, alkyl,
   aralkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyl, alkoxyl, amino, nitro, sulfhydryl, imino,
30 amido, phosphonate, phosphinate, carbonyl, carboxyl, silyl, ether, alkylthio, sulfonyl,
   sulfonamido, ketone, aldehyde, ester, heterocyclyl, aromatic or heteroaromatic moieties,
   -CF 3 , -CN, aryl, aryloxy, perhaloalkoxy, aralkoxy, heteroaryl, heteroaryloxy,
   heteroarylalkyl, heteroaralkoxy, azido, amino, halide, alkylthio, oxo, acylalkyl, carboxy

                                               - 100
   esters, -carboxamido, acyloxy, aminoalkyl, alkylaminoaryl, alkylaryl, alkylaminoalkyl,
   alkoxyaryl, arylamino, aralkylamino, alkylsulfonyl, -carboxamidoalkylaryl,
   -carboxamidoaryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, alkylaminoalkylcarboxy-,
   aminocarboxamidoalkyl-, cyano, alkoxyalkyl, perhaloalkyl, arylalkyloxyalkyl, and the
 5 like.
            As used herein, the term "determining" generally refers to the analysis of a
   species or signal, for example, quantitatively or qualitatively, and/or the detection of the
   presence or absence of the species or signals. "Determining" may also refer to the
   analysis of an interaction between two or more species or signals, for example,
10 quantitatively or qualitatively, and/or by detecting the presence or absence of the
   interaction.
            As used herein the term "acquiring" an image means obtaining an image.
            The term "diagnostic imaging," as used herein, refers to a procedure used to
   detect an imaging agent.
15          A "diagnostic kit" or "kit" comprises a collection of components, termed the
   formulation, in one or more vials, which are used in a clinical or pharmacy setting to
   synthesize diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals. For example, the kit may be used by the
   practicing end user in a clinical or pharmacy setting to synthesize and/or use diagnostic
   radiopharmaceuticals. In some embodiments, the kit may provide all the requisite
20 components to synthesize and/or use the diagnostic pharmaceutical except those that are
   commonly available to the practicing end user, such as water or saline for injection, a
   solution of the radionuclide, equipment for processing the kit during the synthesis and
   manipulation of the radiopharmaceutical, if required, equipment necessary for
   administering the radiopharmaceutical to the subject such as syringes, shielding, imaging
25 equipment, and the like. In some embodiments, imaging agents may be provided to the
   end user in their final form in a formulation contained typically in one vial or syringe, as
   either a lyophilized solid or an aqueous solution.
            As used herein, a "portion of a subject" refers to a particular region of a subject,
   location of the subject. For example, a portion of a subject may be the brain, heart,
30 vasculature, cardiac vessels, of a subject.
            As used herein a "session" of testing may be a single testing protocol that a
   subject undergoes. In some cases a session may include rest/stress imaging protocol;
   stress/rest imaging protocol; rest only imaging protocol; or a stress only imaging

                                                - 101
   protocol. A session of testing can take place in less than 24 hours or less than 48 hour.
            As used herein, the term "subject" refers to a human or non-human mammal or
   animal. Non-human mammals include livestock animals, companion animals, laboratory
   animals, and non-human primates. Non-human subjects also specifically include,
 5 without limitation, horses, cows, pigs, goats, dogs, cats, mice, rats, guinea pigs, gerbils,
   hamsters, mink, and rabbits. In some embodiments of the invention, a subject is referred
   to as a "patient." In some embodiments, a patient or subject may be under the care of a
   physician or other health care worker, including, but not limited to, someone who has
   consulted with, received advice from or received a prescription or other recommendation
10 from a physician or other health care worker.
            Any of the compounds described herein may be in a variety of forms, such as, but
   not limited to, salts, solvates, hydrates, tautomers, and isomers.
            In certain embodiments, the imaging agent is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
   of the imaging agent. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" as used herein refers
15 to those salts which are, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in
   contact with the tissues of humans and lower animals without undue toxicity, irritation,
   allergic response and the like, and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
   Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well known in the art. For example, Berge et al.,
   describe pharmaceutically acceptable salts in detail in J. PharmaceuticalSciences, 1977,
20 66, 1-19, incorporated herein by reference. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the
   compounds of this invention include those derived from suitable inorganic and organic
   acids and bases. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable, nontoxic acid addition salts
   are salts of an amino group formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid,
   hydrobromic acid, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid and perchloric acid or with organic
25 acids such as acetic acid, oxalic acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, succinic acid
   or malonic acid or by using other methods used in the art such as ion exchange. Other
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts include adipate, alginate, ascorbate, aspartate,
   benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bisulfate, borate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate,
   citrate, cyclopentanepropionate, digluconate, dodecylsulfate, ethanesulfonate, formate,
30 fumarate, glucoheptonate, glycerophosphate, gluconate, hemisulfate, heptanoate,
   hexanoate, hydroiodide, 2-hydroxy-ethanesulfonate, lactobionate, lactate, laurate, lauryl
   sulfate, malate, maleate, malonate, methanesulfonate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate,
   nicotinate, nitrate, oleate, oxalate, palmitate, pamoate, pectinate, persulfate, 3-

                                               - 102
   phenylpropionate, phosphate, picrate, pivalate, propionate, stearate, succinate, sulfate,
   tartrate, thiocyanate, p-toluenesulfonate, undecanoate, valerate salts, and the like. Salts
   derived from appropriate bases include alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, ammonium and
   N+(Ci_4alkyl) 4 salts. Representative alkali or alkaline earth metal salts include sodium,
 5 lithium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and the like. Further pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts include, when appropriate, nontoxic ammonium, quaternary ammonium,
   and amine cations formed using counterions such as halide, hydroxide, carboxylate,
   sulfate, phosphate, nitrate, loweralkyl sulfonate and aryl sulfonate.
            In certain embodiments, the compound is in the form of a hydrate or solvate. The
10 term "hydrate" as used herein refers to a compound non-covalently associated with one
   or more molecules of water. Likewise, the term "solvate" refers to a compound non
   covalently associated with one or more molecules of an organic solvent.
            In certain embodiments, the compound described herein may exist in various
   tautomeric forms. The term "tautomer" as used herein includes two or more
15 interconvertable compounds resulting from at least one formal migration of a hydrogen
   atom and at least one change in valency (e.g., a single bond to a double bond, a triple
   bond to a single bond, or vice versa). The exact ratio of the tautomers depends on
   several factors, including temperature, solvent, and pH. Tautomerizations (i.e., the
   reaction providing a tautomeric pair) may catalyzed by acid or base. Exemplary
20 tautomerizations include keto-to-enol; amide-to-imide; lactam-to-lactim; enamine-to
   imine; and enamine-to-(a different) enamine tautomerizations.
            In certain embodiments, the compounds described herein may exist in various
   isomeric forms. The term "isomer" as used herein includes any and all geometric
   isomers and stereoisomers (e.g., enantiomers, diasteromers, etc.). For example, "isomer"
25 include cis- and trans-isomers,E- and Z- isomers, R- and S-enantiomers,
   diastereomers, (D)-iSomers, (L)-isomers, racemic mixtures thereof, and other mixtures
   thereof, as falling within the scope of the invention. For instance, an isomer/enantiomer
   may, in some embodiments, be provided substantially free of the corresponding
   enantiomer, and may also be referred to as "optically enriched." "Optically-enriched,"
30 as used herein, means that the compound is made up of a significantly greater proportion
   of one enantiomer. In certain embodiments the compound of the present invention is
   made up of at least about 90% by weight of a preferred enantiomer. In other
   embodiments the compound is made up of at least about 95%, 98%, or 99% by weight of

                                               - 103
   a preferred enantiomer. Preferred enantiomers may be isolated from racemic mixtures
   by any method known to those skilled in the art, including chiral high pressure liquid
   chromatography (HPLC) and the formation and crystallization of chiral salts or prepared
   by asymmetric syntheses. See, for example, Jacques, et al., Enantiomers,Racemates and
 5 Resolutions (Wiley Interscience, New York, 1981); Wilen, S.H., et al., Tetrahedron
   33:2725 (1977); Eliel, E.L. Stereochemistry of Carbon Compounds (McGraw-Hill, NY,
   1962); Wilen, S.H. Tables ofResolving Agents and Optical Resolutions p. 268 (E.L.
   Eliel, Ed., Univ. of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, IN 1972).
           These and other aspects of the present invention will be further appreciated upon
10 consideration of the following Examples, which are intended to illustrate certain
   particular embodiments of the invention but are not intended to limit its scope, as defined
   by the claims.
                                             Examples
15                                           Example 1
                Synthesis of 4-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)benzoic acid methyl ester
                           CO 2Me                           CO 2Me
                                        BFg Et2O
                               OH
           To a two-neck round bottom flask, which was equipped with a Dewar condenser,
   a solution of 4-hydroxymethylbenzoic acid methyl ester (2.50 g, 0.015 mol) in anhydrous
20 dichloromethane (30 mL) was cooled to -10 'C in a salt/ice bath. Ethylene oxide (1.10
   mL) was added to the cooled stirring solution dropwise followed by the addition of
   boron trifluoride etherate (0.51 ml). The reaction mixture was stirred for 45 minutes and
   then warmed to room temperature for 30 minutes to boil off any excess of ethylene oxide
   from the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was then diluted with brine. The
25 aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane (3 times). All of the organic layers
   were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to provide an oil. The
   crude material was purified using silica gel chromatography (4:1 pentane:ethyl acetate)
   to provide the desired product (537 mg, 2.56 mmol) in 17% yield. IH (CDCl 3 8.36, 600
   MHz): 6 (2H, d, J=8.4 Hz), 7.41 (2H, d, J=8.5 Hz), 4.62 (3H, s), 3.92 (2H, s), 3.78 (m,
30 2H), 3.63 (2H, m); 3C (CDCl 3 167.1, 143.5, 130.0, 129.8, 127.5, 72.9, 72.0, 150 MHz): 6

                                                  - 104
   62.1, 52.3.
                                               Example 2
     Synthesis of 4-[2-(t-butyldimethylsilanyloxy)ethoxymethyl]benzoic acid methyl ester
                     CO2Me                                     CO2Me
                                         TBDMS-CI,
                                         Imidazole, DMF
                                                                  O         OTBDMS
                     5 O            OH
           To a solution of the product of Example 1 (544.5 mg, 2.59 mmol) in anhydrous
   DMF (26 mL) was added imidazole (264 mg, 3.89 mmol) and TBDMS-Cl (586 mg, 3.89
   mmol). The reaction mixture stirred at room temperature overnight and was quenched
   with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate (3x). All combined
10 organic layers were dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. The crude material
   was purified using silica gel chromatography (4:1 pentane:ethyl acetate) to provide the
   desired product (677.5 mg, 2.19 mmol) in 84% yield. IH (CDCl 3 8.01, 600 MHz): 6
   (2H, d, J=8.3 Hz), 7.42 (2H, d, J=8.4 Hz), 4.63 (2H, s), 3.91 (2H, s), 3.82 (2H, t, J= 5.0),
   3.58 (2H, t, J=5.1 Hz), 0.91 (9H, s), 0.07 (6H, s); 3C (CDC13 166.5, 143.5, 129.2, 128.8,
15 126.5, 72.1, 71.6, 150 MHz): 6 62.3, 51.5, 25.4, 17.9, -5.8.
                                               Example 3
         Synthesis of {4-[2-(t-butyldimethylsilanyloxy)ethoxymethyl]phenyl} methanol
                     CO2Me                                        OH
                                           LAH, THF
                                     OTBDMS                                 OTBDMS
20         To a solution of the product of Example 2 (670 mg, 2.18 mmol) dissolved in
   anhydrous THF (22 mL) was added a solution of LAH (1.0 M solution in THF, 2.18 mL,
   2.18 mmol) dropwise. After completion of addition the reaction mixture was stirred at
   room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water. The
   aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate (3x). All combined organic layers were
25 dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to provide an oil (587 mg, 1.98 mmol),
   which was used in the next step without any further purification (91% yield). 'H (CDCl 3

                                                  - 105
   7.34 (4H, s), 4.68 (2H, s), 4.57 (2H, s), 3.80, 600 MHz): 6 (2H, t, J=5.2 Hz), 3.56 (2H, t,
   J=5.3 Hz), 1.69 (1H, br s), 0.90 (9H, s), 0.07 (6H, s); "C (CDCl3 140.4, 138.3, 128.0,
   127.2, 73.2, 71.9, 65.4, 150 MHz): 6 63.0, 26.2, 18.6, -5.0.
 5                                              Example 4
    Synthesis of 2-t-butyl-5-{4-[2-(t-butyldimethylsilanyloxy)ethoxymethyl]benzyloxy}-4
                                     chloro-2H-pyridazin-3 -one
                   O0
                N         CI DIAD, THF, PPh 3               CI
                    |OH                       "       N                              OTBDMS
                          OH    O                     N
                                0     OTBDMS                                      0
                                                                                  O
           To solution of the product of Example 3 (437 mg, 1.48 mmol) and 2-t-butyl-4
10 chloro-5-hydroxy-2H-pyridazin-3-one (250 mg, 1.23 mmol) dissolved in anhydrous THF
   (12 mL) was added solid PPh 3 (485 mg, 1.85 mmol) and diisopropyl azodicarboxylate
   (DIAD, 0.358 mL, 1.85 mmol). After completion of addition the reaction mixture
   continued to stir at room temperature. After 20 hours, the reaction mixture was diluted
   with water. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with ethyl acetate (3x). All
15 combined organic layers were dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to provide
   an oil. The crude material was purified using silica gel chromatography (4:1 pentane:
   ethyl acetate) to provide the desired product 528 mg, 1.10 mmol) in 89% yield. IH
   (CDCl 3 7.70 (1H, s), 7.38 (4H, m), 5.30 (2H, s), 4.58, 600 MHz): 6 (2H, s), 3.80 (2H, t,
   J= 5.4 Hz), 3.57 (2H, t, J=5.4 Hz), 1.63 (9H, br s), 0.90 (9H, s), 0.07 (6H, s);     13C
20 (CDC13 159.0, 153.7, 138.8, 134.4, 128.3, 127.3, 150 MHz): 6 125.1, 118.5, 72.8, 71.7,
   71.6, 66.4, 61.9, 29.7, 27.9, 25.6, -5.1.; HRMS calcd for C 24 H37 ClN 2 0 4 Si: 481.228389,
   found 481.2282.
                                                Example 5
25 Synthesis of 2- t-butyl-4-chloro-5-[4-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)benzyloxy]-2H-pyridazin
                                                   3-one
                          0                                       0
         N                           OTBDMS      T A THN                                    OH
         STBAF,                                      THF
                                  0                                                       0

                                                     - 106
            To a solution of the product of Example 4 (528 mg, 1.09 mmol) dissolved in
   anhydrous THF (11 mL) was added a solution of TBAF (1.0 M solution in THF, 1.65
   mL, 1.65 mmol) dropwise. After completion of addition the reaction was stirred at room
   temperature for 1 hour and then quenched with water. The aqueous layer was separated
 5 and extracted with ethyl acetate (3x). All combined organic layers were dried over
   Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to provide an oil. The crude material was purified
   using silica gel chromatography (4:1 hexanes: ethyl acetate) to provide the desired
   product (311 mg, 0.850 mmol) in 78% yield. 'H (CDCl3 , 600 MHz): 6 7.70 (1H, s), 7.38
   (4H, m), 5.30 (2H, s), 4.56 (2H, s), 3.76 (2H, t, J=4.9 Hz), 3.60 (2H, t, J=4.8 Hz), 2.00
10 (1H, br s), 1.61 (9H, br s);     13
                                       C (CDCl 3 159.0, 153.6, 150 MHz): 6 138.8, 134.4, 128.2,
   127.2, 125.1, 118.3, 72.8, 71.6, 71.6, 66.4, 61.9, 27.8; HRMS calcd for C18H 2 3 ClN 2 0 4 :
   367.141911, found 367.1419.
                                                  Example 6
15       Synthesis of toluene-4-sulfonic acid 2-[4-(1-t-butyl-5-chloro-6-oxo-1,6-dihydro
                             pyridazin-4-yloxymethyl)-benzyloxy]-ethyl ester
                               0                                       0
                                                                   _-N      CI
          N          CI                   OH                         N                        OTs
                                                   TsCI, TEA,
            N                                      DMAP, DCM  ,      N
                                        0                                                  0
            To a solution of the product of Example 5 (200 mg, 0.546 mmol) dissolved in
   anhydrous dichloromethane (5.50 mL) was added TsCl (125 mg, 0.656 mmol), DMAP
20 (100 mg, 0.819 mmol) and triethylamine (0.091 mL, 0.656 mmol). The reaction mixture
   continued stirring at room temperature. After 22 hours the reaction mixture was diluted
   with water. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with ethyl acetate (3x). All
   combined organic layers were dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to provide
   an oil. The crude material was purified using silica gel chromatography (3:2
25 pentane:ethyl acetate) to provide the desired product (232 mg, 0.447 mmol) in 82%
   yield. IH (CDCl 3 7.79, 600 MHz): 6 (2H, d, J=8.3 Hz), 7.71 (1H, s), 7.38 (2H, d, J=8.2
   Hz), 7.32 (4H, m), 5.30 (2H, s), 4.50 (2H, s), 4.21 (2H, m), 3.69 (2H, m), 2.43 (3H, s),
   1.63 (9H, br s);     13
                           C (CDCl 3 159.0, 153.7, 144.8, 138.8, 150 MHz): 6 134.4, 133.1, 129.8,
   128.1, 128.0, 127.2, 125.1, 118.4, 72.8, 71.7, 69.2, 67.8, 66.4, 27.9, 21.6; HRMS calcd
30 for C 25 H 29 ClN 2 0 6 :521.150762, found 521.1503.

                                                - 107
                                             Example 7
                                     Preparation of [ 18F]fluoride
            [1 8F]Fluoride was produced by proton bombardment of [ 180]H20 in a cyclotron;
 5 the nuclear chemical transformation is shown below and may be summarized as
   180(p,n)1 8
                F. For purposes of the bombardment, the chemical form of the 18O is H 2 180.
   The chemical form of the resulting    18F is fluoride ion.
                                    180 + proton  -   I8F + neutron
           According to established industry procedures, [ 180]H2 0 (2-3 mL) housed within
10 a tantalum target body using Havar@ foil, was bombarded with 11 MeV protons
   (nominal energy); where the proton threshold energy for the reaction is 2.57 MeV and
   the energy of maximum cross section is 5 MeV. Target volume, bombardment time and
   proton energy each may be adjusted to manage the quantity of [ 18F]fluoride produced.
15                                           Example 8
                 Preparation of Imaging Agent Precursor 1 Acetontrile Concentrate
           Imaging agent precursor 1 (20.4 g, 39.2 mmol), as shown in Figure 1, was
   dissolved in anhydrous MeCN (3400 mL) then transferred through an Opticap XL2
   Durapore filter (0.2 pim) into 5 mL glass vials; 2.0 mL fill volume. The vials were then
20 fitted with rubber septa, sealed with an aluminum crimp and stored at ambient
   temperature prior to use.
                                             Example 9
                              General Preparation of Imaging agent 1
25         The following example describes a general procedure for synthesizing imaging
   agent 1, as shown in Figure 1. Aqueous [I 8F]fluoride, as prepared in Example 7, was
   transferred from the cyclotron to a synthesis module, then filtered through an anion
   exchange column to remove unreacted [ 180]H2 0; [' 8F]fluoride was retained within the
   cationic resin matrix. The column was then washed with aqueous Et 4NHCO 3 with
30 transfer to the reaction vessel. The resulting solution was diluted with MeCN then
   concentrated to dryness using elevated temperature and reduced pressure. The mixture
   of anhydrous [I 8F]Et 4NF and and Et 4NHCO 3 thus obtained was treated with the
   acetonitrile solution of imaging agent precursor 1, as prepared in Example 8, then

                                                - 108
   warmed to 90-100 'C and maintained 10-20 min. After cooling, the solution was diluted
   with H2 0 then directly purified by HPLC on a Waters Xterra MS C 18 column using a
   H2 0/MeCN eluent. The main product peak was collected, diluted with ascorbic acid
   then transferred to the formulation module. In another case, similar steps and conditions
 5 were employed as above except the solution was warmed to 85-120 'C and maintained 5
   20 min, followed by cooling and diluting with 1:1 H20/MeCN.
                                              Example 10
              Preparation of imaging agent 1 using the Explora RN Synthesis Module
10           The product of Example 7 was transferred from cyclotron to the synthesis module
   then filtered through an anion exchange column to remove unreacted [ 180]H 20;
   [18F]fluoride was retained within the cationic resin matrix. The column was then washed
   with Et 4NHCO 3 (5.75 pmol; 0.500 mL of a 11.5 mM solution in H2 0) with transfer to
   the reaction vessel. The resulting solution was diluted with MeCN (0.500 mL) then
15 concentrated to dryness; 150 mm Hg at 115 'C for 4 min. The mixture of anhydrous
   [' 8F]Et 4NF and Et 4NHCO 3 thus obtained was treated with the product of Example 8 (11.5
   pmol; 1.00 mL of a 11.5 mM solution in MeCN) then warmed to 90 'C and maintained
   20 min. After cooling to 35 'C, the solution was diluted with H2 0 (1.00 mL) then
   directly purified by HPLC on a Waters Xterra MS C18 column (10 Lm; 10 x 250 mm)
20 using a 45:55 H20/MeCN eluent at a flow rate of 5 mL/min. The main product peak
   eluting at 11 min was collected, diluted with ascorbic acid (10 mL of a 0.28 M solution
   in H2 0; pH 2) then transferred to the formulation module; 58% decay corrected
   radiochemical yield.
             In another case, similar steps and conditions were employed as above except the
25 Et 4NHCO 3 was 11.5 pmol (0.500 mL of a 23.0 mM solution in H2 0); the solution was
   concentrated to dryness at 280 mbar, 95-115 'C, 4 min; the mixture of anhydrous
   [' 8F]Et 4NF and Et 4NHCO 3 treated with the product of Example 8 was warmed to 90 'C
   and maintained 10 min; and the product had 610% decay corrected radiochemical yield.
30                                           Example 11a
       Preparation of Imaging agent 1 using the Eckhert & Ziegler Modular-Lab Synthesis
                                                Module

                                                - 109
             The product of Example 7 was transferred from cyclotron to the synthesis module
   then filtered through an anion exchange column to remove unreacted [ 180]H 2 0;
   [I 8F]fluoride was retained within the cationic resin matrix. The column was then washed
   with Et 4NHCO 3 (11.5 pmol; 0.500 mL of a 23.0 mM solution in H2 0) with transfer to
 5 the reaction vessel. The resulting solution was diluted with MeCN (0.500 mL) then
   concentrated to dryness; 375 mm Hg at 115 'C for 10 min. The mixture of anhydrous
   [' 8F]Et 4 NF and Et 4NHCO 3 thus obtained was treated with the product of Example 8
   (11.5 pmol; 1.00 mL of a 11.5 mM solution in MeCN) then warmed to 110 'C and
   maintained 10 min. After cooling to 20 'C, the solution was diluted with H 2 0 (1.00 mL)
10 then directly purified by HPLC on a Waters Xterra MS C18 column (10 pm; 10 x 250
   mm) using a 45:55 H 20/MeCN eluent at a flow rate of 5 mL/min. The main product
   peak eluting at 11 min was collected, diluted with ascorbic acid (10 mL of a 0.28 M
   solution in H2 0; pH 2) then transferred to the formulation module; 68% decay corrected
   radiochemical yield.
15           In another case, similar steps and conditions were employed as above except the
   ersulting solution was concentrated to dryness a 400 mbar, 110-150 'C, 10 min; the
   mixture of anhydrous [I 8F]Et 4NF and Et 4NHCO 3 treated with the product of Example 8
   was warmed to 120 'C and maintained 10 min; and the cooling was conducted at 35 'C.
20                                           Example 1lb
              Preparation of Imaging Agent 1 using the Explora GN Synthesis Module
             The product of Example 7 was transferred from cyclotron to the synthesis module
   then filtered through an anion exchange column to remove unreacted [ 180]H 20;
   [I 8F]fluoride was retained within the cationic resin matrix. The column was then washed
25 with Et 4NHCO 3 (11.5 pmol; 1.00 mL of a 11.5 mM solution in H2 0) with transfer to the
   reaction vessel. The resulting solution was diluted with MeCN (1.00 mL) then
   concentrated to dryness; 110-115 'C. Additional MeCN (1.50 mL) was then added and
   the solution concentrated to dryness once again. The mixture of anhydrous [' 8F]Et 4NF
   and Et 4NHCO 3 thus obtained was treated with the product of Example 8 (11.5 pmol;
30 1.00 mL of a 11.5 mM solution in MeCN) then warmed to 120 'C and maintained 10
   min. After cooling to 60 'C, the solution was diluted with H 20/MeCN (3.00 mL; 2:1
   v/v) then directly purified by HPLC on a Waters Xterra MS C 18 column (10 pam; 10 x
   250 mm) using a 45:55 H 20/MeCN eluent at a flow rate of 5 mL/min. The main product

                                               -110
   peak eluting at 11 min was collected, diluted with ascorbic acid (10 mL of a 0.28 M
   solution in H2 0; pH 2) then transferred to the formulation module; 68% decay corrected
   radiochemical yield.
 5                                          Example 1Ic
       Preparation of Imaging Agent 1 using the GE TRACERLab MX Synthesis Module
            The product of Example 7 was transferred from cyclotron to the synthesis module
   then filtered through an anion exchange column to remove unreacted [ 180]H 20;
   [18F]fluoride was retained within the cationic resin matrix. The column was then washed
10 with Et 4NHCO 3 (23.0 pmol; 0.500 mL of a 46.0 mM solution in 1:1 H20/MeCN) with
   transfer to the reaction vessel. The resulting solution was diluted with MeCN then
   concentrated to dryness; 150 mbar, 105 'C, 8 min. Additional MeCN was then added
   and the drying process repeated; the process of MeCN addition followed by evaporation
   was repeated three times. The mixture of anhydrous [18F]Et 4NF and Et 4NHCO 3 thus
15 obtained was treated with the product of Example 8 (23.0 pmol; 2.00 mL of a 11.5 mM
   solution in MeCN) then warmed to 85 'C and maintained 10 min. The resulting solution
   was then diluted with H2 0 (2.00 mL) and directly purified by HPLC on a Waters Xterra
   MS C18 column (10 pim; 10 x 250 mm) using a 45:55 H20/MeCN eluent at a flow rate
   of 5 mL/min. The main product peak eluting at 11 min was collected, diluted with
20 ascorbic acid (10 mL of a 0.28 M solution in H2 0; pH 2) then transferred to the
   formulation module; 63% decay corrected radiochemical yield.
                                            Example 12
                                     Solvent Exchange Process
25          The product of Example 10 or 11 was transferred from purification to the
   formulation module then filtered through a C18 Sep-Pak@ cartridge to remove MeCN;
   Imaging agent 1 was retained within the C18 resin matrix and the filtrate discarded. The
   cartridge was successively washed with ascorbic acid (10 mL of a 0.28 M solution in
   H2 0; pH 2), the filtrate discarded, then absolute EtOH (0.50 mL), and the filtrate
30 collected. The ethanol concentrate of imaging agent 1 thus obtained was further diluted
   with ascorbic acid (10.0 mL of a 0.28 M solution in H2 0) in preparation for final aseptic
   filtration.

                                                 - 111
                                              Example 13
                                     Aseptic Filtration Process
           The final product vial assembly was constructed from the following pre-sterilized
   components: one 30 mL product vial, one Millipore Millex GV4 venting filter (0.22 pm
 5 x 4 mm), one tuberculin syringe (1 mL) and one insulin syringe (0.5 mL). The product
   of Example 12 was then transferred from formulation to the final product vial assembly
   through a Millipore Millex GV PVDF sterilizing filter (0.22 pm x 13 mm). Quality
   control samples are then removed, using the syringe assemblies, to complete all product
   release requirements.
10
                                              Example 14
           Upon evaluation of several experimental parameters in the nucleophilic
   fluorination of imaging agent precursor 1 (Figure 1) using K 2CO 3/Kryptofix* 222 overall
   reaction complexity was shown to increase with added K 2 C0 3 ; comparable fluorination
15 efficiency was observed regardless of reagent stoichiometry. Elevated base (e.g.,
   carbonate) levels were simply correlated to unproductive consumption of starting
   material (e.g., imaging agent precursor). Substitution of K 2 C0 3 with KHCO 3 resulted in
   considerable improvement of both fluorination efficiency and starting material integrity.
   The solution pH remained uniform regardless of base identity and reagent stoichiometry;
20 the presence or absence of Kryptofix* 222 determines global solution pH. The
   fluorination efficiency remained stable regardless of reagent stoichiometry, indicating a
   more complex role of added base within the reaction coordinate.
           Figure 2 shows various possible reaction pathways, which traces unproductive
   consumption of starting material to a series of base-mediated hydrolysis reactions and
25 dimerization events. Variable time and temperature experiments confirmed the
   comparable rates of hydrolysis and fluorination in the nucleophilic fluorination reaction
   shown in Figure 1, using the K 2CO 3/Kryptofix* 222 in the presence of K 2 C0 3 . Thus,
   reaction conditions which activate larger differential rates of fluorination are desired in
   order to advance a more efficient and chemoselective process; that is, a decreased rate of
30 hydrolysis and/or increased rate of fluorination.
           As noted above, K 2 C0  3 did little to enhance fluorination over baseline levels and
   served primarily a detrimental role in the reaction. In contrast, added KHCO 3 produced a
   marked increase in fluorination over the same dynamic range, while decomposition

                                                  -112
   pathways remained poorly differentiated. These facts, coupled with the knowledge that
   [IF]NaF exchange with tetraalkylammonium cations is known to directly produce a
   highly active nucleophilic fluoride source, led to the investigation of a series of
   commercially available salts in an effort to identify related counterion affects that
 5 amplify the rate of fluorination (e.g., see Figure 1).
           A series of different bases was used in the nucleophilic fluorination of a tosylate
   precursor using TBAF as a source of fluoride (shown above), according to the following
   procedure. A 2 mL glass vial was charged with both Bu 4NF (1.15 pmol; 13.4 pL of a
   85.9 mM solution in H 20) and Bu 4NHCO 3 (10.4 pmol; 138 pL of a 75.0 mM solution in
10 H2 0), then warmed to 95 'C and maintained 10 min under a stream of dry nitrogen. The
   resulting solid mixture was treated with the product of Example 8 (11.5 pmol; 1.00 mL
   of a 11.5 mM solution in MeCN) then warmed to 90 'C and maintained 10 min. After
   cooling to 22 'C, the resulting solution was diluted with H 2 0 then directly analyzed by
   HPLC on a Zorbax SB-C 18 column (4.6 x 50 mm) using a H 20/MeCN gradient
15 containing 0.1 % HCO 2H with a flow rate of 1.00 mL/min. The reaction yield was then
   calculated through comparison of the integrated peak area for the product in the crude
   reaction mixture to that of the authentic standard product (Table 1); results obtained
   through substitution of several alternate salt forms are also provided for comparison.
           An enhancement of fluorination efficiency was observed in the presence of
20 bicarbonate anion. Additionally, a modest dependence on size of the alkyl substituent
   was observed when R     = methyl    ->  ethyl -> butyl (data not shown).
           A ~1.5-fold improvement in yield was observed using the KF-Kryptofix* 222
   method when changing from no added salt, to one equivalent potassium carbonate, to
   one equivalent potassium bicarbonate.
25              Table 1. Comparison of salt form identity and fluorination yield.
                                      salt form                % yield
                                    bicarbonate                  81.4
                                     hydroxide                  35.5
                                        acetate                  2.8
                                        lactate                 38.7
                                 trifluoroacetate                 3.7
                                methanesulfonate                39.6
                               p-toluenesulfonate                15.0
                                        nitrate                 45.1
                                        iodide                  44.6
                                      bisulfate                 <2%
                                         none                   44.1

                                               - 113
            Additionally, the amount of salt additive was varied, relative to the amount of
   starting material (e.g., imaging agent precursor), in order to investigate the effect of salt
   additive concentration on the reaction. Figure 9 shows (A) a graph illustrating the
 5 changes in product distribution as a function of molar concentration of bicarbonate salt
   and (B) a graph illustrating the product distribution as a function of reaction time.
   Investigation of the salt stoichiometry revealed that 25 mol % (or 0.25 equivalents,
   relative to the imaging agent precursor) of tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate was needed
   for complete conversion and unproductive consumption of starting material occurred
10 with increasing base concentration revealing an optimum stoichiometry range for the
   modified reaction conditions. Related studies directed toward determination of the
   optimal precursor concentration revealed a rather distinct concentration threshold.
   Figure 9C illustrates a threshold of >3 mg/ml.
            The use of tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate as an additive in the absence of
15 Kryptofix* 222 during nucleophilic fluorination resulted in rapid conversion to the
   desired product and significantly improved chemoselectivity toward fluorination, relative
   to the use of K2 C0 3/Kryptofix* 222 method. A detailed evaluation of crude reaction
   mixtures revealed a dramatic reduction in overall decomposition rates when
   tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate was used, as evidenced by the absence of four
20 hydrolytic impurities present when K2C0 3/Kryptofix* 222 was used. Without wishing
   to be bound by theory, this may be attributed to the fact that the use of a
   tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate allows the reaction to be conducted at a lower absolute
   pH (e.g., a pH of about 5-6).
25                                          Example 15
           O                              10 mol % KF                O
                                          4.15 equiv Kryptofix
          uN    C1.25                          equiv K2CO3         N
                                          MeCN
        Nt                                90 deg C, 10 min
                             O--
                               c     OTs                                                 O       F
           Imaging Agent Precursor 1
                                                                  Imaging Agent 1
            The following example investigates the effect of the presence of potassium
   carbonate in a nucleophilic fluorination reaction. A yield of 36% is obtained in the
   presence of potassium carbonate, while a yield of 35% is obtained in the absence of
30 potassium carbonate.

                                                -114
                                             Example 16
          O                                10 mol % KF                     O
                                          4.15 equiv Kryptofix             0
   tBuN        CI                          1.25 equiv base        tBuN         CI
                                           MeCN
               N      'Nz                 90 deg C; 10 min
                        l    O---OTs                                                      O 1'
              Imaging Agent Precursor 1                                Imaging Agent 1
           The following example describes the effect that different salt additives may have
 5 on nucleophilic fluorination. A yield of 35% is obtained in the presence of potassium
   carbonate, while a yield of 71% is obtained in the presence of potassium bicarbonate.
                                             Example 17
          0                              10 mol % fluoride source          0
   t-Bus       CI                        bicarbonate base         t-Bu,         CI
                                         MeCN                           Y
                                         90 deg C; 10 min
                             /OgOTs
                                                                        Imaging Agent 1
10         The following example describes the results obtained using different fluoride
   sources in a nucleophilic fluorination reaction. A yield of 71% is obtained in the
   presence of KF/Kryptofix* 222, while a yield of 83% is obtained in the presence of
   tetrabutylammonium fluoride.
15                                           Example 18
                                         10 mol % fluoride source
   t-Bu'N      CI                        0.90 equiv base          t-Bu          CI
                                         MeCN
                                         90 deg C; 10 min               N
                              Og-   OTsO                                                       F
           Imaging Agent Precursor 1                                      Imaging Agent 1
           The following example describes the results obtained using different bases in a
   nucleophilic fluorination reaction utilizing tetrabutylammonium fluoride as the fluoride
   salt. A yield of 83% is obtained in the presence of the bicarbonate base, while a yield of
20 36% is obtained in the presence of the hydroxide base.

                                               - 115
                                             Example 19
           The following describes a comparison of imaging agent 1 and       82Rb  PET versus
   SPECT for detection of myocardial ischemia. In preclinical studies, myocardial uptake
   of imaging agent 1 exhibits a stronger relationship with myocardial blood flow across the
                                                               82
 5 range of achievable flow than 201T1, 99mTc sestamibi and       Rb. The following
   experiments were conducted to determine if the improved extraction and retention of
   imaging agent 1 would result in a greater difference between PET and SPECT ischemia
   detection by imaging agent 1 versus 82Rb.
           Methods: Twenty-six patients (20 men) who underwent         99mTc  sestamibi SPECT
10 and imaging agent 1 PET within 6 months at a single center in a phase II clinical trial
   were compared to 23 patients (matched by summed difference score (SDS) on SPECT)
                                                   82
   who underwent     99mTc sestamibi SPECT and        Rb PET (25-5OmCi) within 6 months
   without change in clinical state. PET was performed with imaging agent 1 at rest (2.3
   3.9 mCi) followed 60 min or 24 h later with exercise or adenosine stress (7.3-8.6 mCi).
15 Perfusion defects on SPECT and PET were assessed by computer-assisted visual
   interpretation, using the standard 17 segment, 5 point-scoring model (O=normal;
   4=absent uptake). The extent and severity of ischemia (SDS) was derived from the
   difference between summed stress score (SSS) and summed rest scores (SRS).
           Results: In 14 patients with abnormal SPECT (SSS >4), mean SDS was greater
20 with imaging agent 1 than with SPECT (9.6 ± 1.8 versus 5.4 ± 0.7, p=0.02). In a
                                                                                         82
   matched group of 13 patients with abnormal SPECT, mean SDS was similar with              Rb
   PET and SPECT (4.9 ± 1.4 versus 4.6± 1.3, p=0.8). In patients with normal SPECT
   (SSS <4), no differences in SDS were observed with either imaging agent 1 (n=12) or
   82
      Rb (n=10) PET when compared to SPECT.
25         Imaging agent 1 PET showed an increase in the amount of ischemia detected
                                                                             82
   relative to 99mTc  sestamibi SPECT that was not seen when comparing          Rb PET to
   SPECT in a comparable patient group. These results suggest that imaging agent 1 show
   greater improvement in detection of myocardial ischemia when PET is compared to
   SPECT than is associated with the use of 8 2 Rb.
30
                                             Example 20
           The following describes multicenter development of normal perfusion and
   function limits for stress and rest cardiac PET. The study included development of

                                                -116
   normal perfusion distribution limits and characterization of normal cardiac function
                                       18
   measured by a cardiac perfusion       F based agent (imaging agent 1).
            Methods: Normal limits were established from 15 low likelihood patients
   (7F/8M) average age 54.7 y, average weight 74.2 kg with treadmill exercise stress/rest
                                                                                    18
 5 datasets (30 datasets in total), recruited in a clinical trial (phase 2) for the   F imaging
   agent 1 perfusion agent, acquired on a Siemens Biograph-64 PET/CT scanner in list
   mode. Standard reconstruction (2D Attenuation Weighted Ordered Subsets Expectation
   Maximization) with voxel size of 2.6 x 2.6 x 2.0 (mm) 8-bin gating was used for the
   gated reconstruction. 5-minute reconstructions were considered obtained approximately
10 5 min after isotope injection for stress and rest. The Cedars-Sinai QPET PET function
   and perfusion analysis software was used for all the processing and for the normal
   perfusion database creation. 2 out of 30 scans (6.7%) for gated studies and 1 out of 30
   for ungated studies (3.3%) required manual intervention in the definition of the left
   ventricle (LV) all other processing was fully automatic.
15          Results: Left ventricular counts were 33.33±6.44 million counts, range (22.76
   44.29) for stress and 7.56±1.86 million counts, range (5.12 -11.77) for rest. The
   stress/rest count ratio was 4.53±0.88 (2.88-6.16). Average trans-ischemic dilation (TID)
   was 0.974±0.124 with upper normal limit of 1.22. QPET relative perfusion normal
   limits were created for stress and rest scans. There was evidence of apical thinning on
20 stress and rest with apical counts at 80/79% respectively. The variation of counts in the
   normal database was between 5-9% in all 17 AHA segments. The functional parameters
   are given in Table 2:
                   Table 2. Functional Parameters from Stress and Rest Scans
                      EDV                ESV                 EF             PFR           TTPF
      Stress      96.1±25.2ml        33.5±14.2ml        65.9±6.3%        2.12±0.49      205±51ms
                                                       (52.5-74.4%)
       Rest       91.2±20.0ml        31.6±12.7ml       66.5%±8.4%        2.39±0.50     162±24.8ms
                                                         (50-80%)
25
                                             Example 21
            The following describes results of absolute quantification of rest and stress
   myocardial blood flow with imaging agent 1 PET in normal and coronary artery disease
   patients. Imaging agent 1 is a new myocardial perfusion PET tracer that targets
30 mitochondrial complex 1. In this study, the quantification of rest (R) and stress (S)

                                               -117
   myocardial blood flows (MBFs) and coronary flow reserve (CFR) was explored with this
   tracer in normal and coronary artery disease (CAD) patients.
           Methods: Eleven patients (8 with a low likelihood of CAD and 3 with CAD and
   presence of reversible defects) received IV injection of imaging agent 1 at rest and at
 5 peak adenosine pharmacological vasodilation. Dynamic PET images were obtained for
   10 minutes, beginning with the administration of the tracer. On reoriented short axis
   images, regions of interest were placed on the normal and defect regions of the
   myocardium and the left ventricular blood pool, from which time activity curves (TACs)
   were generated. Patlak analysis was applied to myocardial TAC (~0.4-1.5 min) using the
10 blood pool TAC as the input function to give the uptake constant (K) in the myocardium.
   Partial volume and spillover corrections were applied to blood pool and myocardial
   TACs to ensure the intercept of the regression line on the Patlak plot was close to zero.
   The first pass extraction fraction for imaging agent 1 in humans was assumed to be 0.94
   (i.e., MBF=K/0.94), equivalent to that observed in prior studies (e.g., see Huisman et al.,
15 JNucl Med 2008;49:630-6).
           Results: S MBF was similar (p=NS) in LL patients and in the myocardial regions
   which were supplied by normal coronary arteries in CAD patients (NCA). R MBF,
   however, was higher (p<0.05) in NCA versus LL, resulting in a lower (p<0.05) CFR in
   NCA patients. In contrast, S MBF and CFR were significantly lower in CAD regions
20 (see Table 3). These findings are in agreement with the published literature using N-13
   ammonia PET.
                                              Table 3.
                                 Rest MBF              Stress MBF                 CFR
             LL                  0.66+0.12              2.36+0.49              3.73+1.24
            NCA                  0.90+0.15              2.38+0.23              2.68+0.32
            CAD                  0.76+0.13              1.18+0.25              1.58+0.33
            The study data showed that absolute MBF could be quantified at rest and stress in
   humans using imaging agent 1 myocardial perfusion PET imaging.
25
                                            Example 22
            The following describes an iterative technique for optimizing injected tracer
                                     18
   dosage and acquisition time for     F-labeled myocardial perfusion tracer imaging agent 1.
   Public and staff concerns about radiation exposure necessitate optimization of the dosage
30 acquisition time product (DATP) to obtain the optimal tradeoff between dose, acquisition

                                               - 118
   time, and image noise. An iterative algorithm was developed for determining optimal
   dosage and acquisition time based on a task-limited noise level.
           Methods: The mean and standard deviation (SD) were determined from a region
   of interest (ROI) of the myocardium to define a ratio: mean/SD (MSD). Using SD and a
 5 surrogate for "noise" has its limitations: 1) intrinsic count variability due to partial
   volume, and tracer uptake and, 2) non-Poisson nature of reconstructed and post filtered
   data. The iterative algorithm was used to fit a model to the limiting MSD. From this, an
   optimal acquisition time was determined for a target MSD to detect a 5% perfusion
   defect.
10         Data Acquisitions: Phantom data simulating patient distributions and a 40%
   septal defect were acquired on a Biograph 64 slice PET/CT scanner using a 30 minute
   listmode acquisition. The technique was also tested in 18 subjects. Patients received a 2
   mCi at rest and ~2 mCi stress on the following day. A dynamic series for 10, 20, 40, 80,
   160, and 320 seconds was acquired 10 minutes post injection. The myocardial ROI was
15 taken from a separate 600 second acquisition using >70% of the maximum myocardial
   voxel limit.
           Data analysis: The phantom data converged to theoretical DATP of 9.5 mCi
   (simulated)*min. In patients, the iterative algorithm converged to a solution in 18 Rest,
   9 Ad and 8 Ex. The results are summarized in Table 4:
20
       Table 4. DATP for detection of 5% defect. 95% time is the limit in which 95% of
                         patients would have detection of the 5% defect.
                             MEAN      STDEV             95% ACQ TIME (for 1 mCi)
               REST           2.48        1.25                        4.98
            EX Stress         1.80       0.57                         2.94
            AD Stress         1.22       0.55                         2.32
           The iterative technique for solving for optimal dosage acquisition time product
   converged for phantom and patient studies. Using this result, an optimal acquisition
25 times for rest, adenosine and exercise stress was determined. Furthermore, it was
   determined that the algorithm can be used to test alternative filtering, and detection limit
   and used to extrapolate to the performance of lower sensitivity scanners.
                                             Example 23

                                               -119
           The following describes the independence of myocardial functional parameters
   (LVEF, EDV and ESV) across a large range of acquisition times as measured from
   radiotracer, imaging agent 1. The accurate measurement of functional parameters using
   myocardial perfusion PET requires adequate count density. The correlation of functional
 5 parameters [left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), end-systolic volume (ESV), and
   end-diastolic volume (EDV)] were examined with acquisition time.
           Methods: To analyze the robustness of functional measurements to variations in
   count density, a series of low count [1, 3, 5 minute adenosine (AD), 3, 5 minute rest, 5,
   10 minute exercise (EX)] to high count (15 minute AD, 10 minute rest, 15 minute EX)
10 ECG gated (16 time bin) PET data sets from "listmode" data were produced. LVEF,
   ESV and EDV were measured using the QPET analysis program.
           Data acquisition:from 23 patients from two study centers. Data for this study
   was acquired using a same day, rest stress study. Patients received ~2 mCi at rest and
   also received a ~6 mCi "same day" stress (8 EX, 13 AD) dosage. Functional values from
15 shorter rebinning times were compared with the longest acquisition time dataset.
   Correlations were determined using linear regression analysis.
           Results: For all acquisition times examined, regression slopes were within 10%
   of unity (with the exception of the 1 minute adenosine, 20%). Correlation coefficients
   are in Table 5.
20
         Table 5. Correlation coefficient between list rebinning and longest acquisition.
                                              EDV     ESV      LVEF
                           3 min -rest        0.970     0.985    0.985
                           5 min-rest         0.995     0.990    0.985
                            1 min-AD          0.970     0.975    0.906
                            10 min-AD         0.997     0.998    0.995
                           5 min-EX           0.990     0.995    0.990
                            10 min-EX         0.999     0.999    0.999
           The high count density present in cardiac imaging agent 1 myocardial perfusion
   PET images showed robust functional measurements across a wide range of count
25 densities is possible. Modest variations in parameters affecting count density, such as
   BMI and variations in dosage, are unlikely to alter functional measurements.
                                            Example 24

                                               - 120
            The following describes the development of a method for the determination of
   minimum inter-injection interval for a one-day rest-stress protocol with imaging agent 1
   PET myocardial perfusion. A one-day rest-stress protocol for myocardial perfusion
   imaging (MPI) needs minimization of wait time between injections (WT) as shorter
 5 times require greater stress/rest dosing ratios (DR) and minimum rest dose is dictated by
   image statistics. A method for determining the dependence of DR on WT and to identify
   a WT for acceptable total dose was developed.
           Methods: Two-day rest-stress imaging agent 1 PET image data of the heart (5
   adenosine (AD) and 5 exercise (EX) stress) from 20 patients with known reversible
10 defects on Tc-99m MPI were combined to create artificial blended images by adding
   16%, 23%, 48% or 100% of rest image to the stress image. These were paired with rest
   images, 2-day stress images and read by 3 blinded readers. Results were recorded by
   segment as reader response (RR) (0 to 4) and as quantitative defect severity (QDS) in %
   decrease.
15         Results: RR was found to be linearly related to the QDS. In general, decreases
   greater than 80% of maximum were read as 0, 70% to 80% as 1, 60% to 70% as "2,"
   50% to 60% as "3" and below 50% as "4." Analysis of RR indicated that greater than 1
   unit change from the 2-day data were observed in reader response in general only for the
   48% and 100% blended image sets. Therefore 23% was deemed the maximum tolerable
20 rest-to-stress contamination. Using the relationship between rest-stress contamination
   and dosing, it was found that, for AD a minimum DR of 2.2 was required with a 0.5 hour
   WT, and for EX a minimum DR of 3.0 was needed with a 1-hour WT.
            Maximum tolerated rest-to-stress contamination levels were determined from
   modeled images. The uptake properties of imaging agent 1 with elevated coronary flow
25 made it possible to tolerate a relatively low DR and short WT for AD studies while a
   longer WT and higher DR is needed for EX studies.
                                            Example 25
            The following describes the design of a 1-day rest-stress PET MPI protocol that
30 requires selection of doses and imaging times for both rest and stress phases as well as
   the interval between rest and stress doses.
            These parameters were determined using three properties of imaging agent 1 in
   myocardial perfusion imaging: 1) the injected dose at rest that yields a diagnostic quality

                                              - 121
   image for a given acquisition time, 2) the maximum acceptable contribution of the rest
   dose to the stress image and 3) the maximum total injected dose that may be
   administered based on radiation dose considerations.
           The minimum rest dose for a given imaging acquisition time in which the count
 5 related signal-to-noise did not meaningfully contribute to reader error was determined.
   This was done by simulating increasing doses using multiple rebinnings of patient rest
   study with increasingly greater amounts of data. This method uses the increasing
   number of coincidence events in sequential rebinnings to create images that model
   increasing dose and/or acquisition duration. This method is valid for relatively low
10 concentrations of radioactivity, such as are used here.
           When the relationship between the dose and acquisition time are known, the rest
   dose for Cohort 2 was calculated. After considering the dosing required for a range of
   acquisition times from two minutes up to a practical maximum of 10 minutes, five
   minutes was selected. This permitted an initial dose of 2.9 mCi for the rest acquisition.
15         To determine the stress dose for a given rest dose, the dosing ratio was
   determined. To do this, first, the maximum tolerable contribution of the rest dose to the
   stress image was determined. This was assessed by creating simulated stress images
   with a range of rest dose contributions using combinations of data from the Study Day 1
   rest and Study Day 2 stress studies.
20         The final step of the method is the need to maintain the total dose below a limit of
   14 mCi, with some additional margin, to limit the radiation dose to 5 rem to the critical
   organ and 1 rem effective dose (ED) or lower.
           Using the maximum rest contribution to the stress image from the analysis, a
   range of dosing intervals was considered from a minimum of 15 minutes (essentially
25 immediately) to a maximum practical limit of 2 hours. Based on this it was possible to
   select a 30 minute interval for adenosine stress that yielded a corresponding ratio of the
   stress dose to the rest dose of 2.0.
           For exercise stress, a combination of a longer dosing interval and greater dose
   ratio was needed due to the lower net myocardial uptake of radioactivity with exercise.
30 Thus, a dosing interval of 60 minutes was chosen which corresponded to a dose ratio of
   3.0. The rest acquisition time was increased to 7 minutes and the rest dose reduced to
   1.7 mCi to allow for the greater required stress/rest dose ratio while still maintaining the
   total comfortably within the 14 mCi limit.

                                               - 122
            In order to allow some range of dosing and to avoid variations in dosing that
   might jeopardize the integrity of the study, the dose and dose ratio values above were set
   as the lower limits of 15% to 20% ranges for each variable and the acquisition times
   increased to a minimum of 15 minutes for all acquisitions to account for the possibility
 5 of lower sensitivity of the 2D PET scanners. The data acquisition was broken into
   sections so that images derived from shorter acquisition times may be obtained from the
   same data as necessary. This resulted in the final specified dosing of 2.9 mCi to 3.4 mCi
   rest with a stress dose of 2.0 to 2.4 times the rest dose for adenosine stress. For exercise
   stress, the final doses were set at 1.7 mCi to 2.0 mCi for rest with a stress dose 3.0 to 3.6
10 times the rest dose. These doses are intended to reflect the actual net injected
   radioactivity so that additional radioactivity is required in the syringe prior to injection to
   compensate for losses due to adsorption and the dead volume of the syringe.
                                            Example 26
15          The following describes human safety, dosimetry, biodistribution, and rest-stress
   myocardial imaging characteristics of 18F-labeled imaging agent 1 myocardial perfusion
                  18
   PET tracer.      F-labeled imaging agent 1 is a novel myocardial perfusion imaging PET
   tracer that targets mitochondrial complex 1. Studies of human safety, dosimetry,
   biodistribution, and myocardial imaging characteristics of this tracer were evaluated.
20          Methods: 25 normal subjects were enrolled in 2 studies: 13 received 222 MBq
   I.V. At rest (R) only and 12 more subjects received 94 MBq at R and, on a second day,
   124 MBq at peak adenosine stress (Adeno, n=6) or at peak treadmill exercise (Ex, n=6).
   Physical exam, laboratory, vital signs, ECG, and EEG were monitored pre- and post
   injection. Myocardial (Myo), liver, blood pool and lung Standardized Uptake Values
25 (SUV) were determined from sequential PET images over time. Mean dose for various
   organs and mean effective dose (ED in mSv/MBq) were estimated.
            Results: There were no adverse events related to the tracer. The top highest-dose
   organs were kidneys at R and heart with Adeno and Ex. ED was 0.019 at R and with
   Adeno and 0.015 with Ex. Myo SUV's remained high during imaging. Ex myo SUV
30 was lower with Ex due to higher skeletal muscle uptake. Ex myo SUV was lower with
   Ex due to higher skeletal muscle uptake. Myo/liver was highest with Ex, followed by
   Adeno and R (see Table 6). Myo/blood and Myo/lung were high and rapidly improved
   with time.

                                                 - 123
                                                Table 6.
                               10 mins        30 mins          60 mins     90 mins     149 mins
       Rest Myo SUV            3.9±0.9        4.2±1.1          4.5±1.2     4.3±1.3      4.1±1.4
       Rest Myo/liver          1.0±0.3        0.9±0.2          1.1±0.2     1.4±0.2      2.1±0.3
     Adeno Myo SUV            10.5±1.5        10.8±2.1        10.3±2.1     9.6±2.1       8.4±2.1
      Adeno Myo/liver          1.9±0.6        2.0±0.5          2.2±0.5     2.6±0.5      3.8±1.0
    Exercise Myo SUV           6.2±2.1        5.5±1.0          5.1±0.9     4.9±0.9      4.5±0.8
     Exercise Myo/liver      28.0±33.6        5.6±1.0          5.6±1.3     5.8±1.5      5.5±1.5
                                              Example 27
 5          Studies were performed in subjects to determine dosing protocols for imaging
    agent 1 under various conditions. Determining dosing protocols included assessing
    parameters such as mCi of imaging agent 1 injected in the body of the subject; mCi of
    imaging agent 1 injected from the syringe; acquisition time of images after injection;
    delay between rest and stress studies, etc. Parameters varied for rest and stress, for
10  example, the injected dose (in the body) for exercise stress was at least three times the
    injected dose (in the body) at rest. In addition, the injected dose (in the body) for
    pharmacological stress was at least two times the injected does (in the body) at rest.
    Results are shown in Table 7.
15     Table 7. Imaging agent 1 doses, acquisition times and dosing delay for exercise and
                                         pharmacologic stress.
                                                                                          Delay
                                       Injected       Injected Dose                     between
                                     Dose in the      in the Syringe   Acquisition       Studies
     Stress Test        Study       Body (mCi)             (mCi)       Time (min)         (min)
                         Rest          1.7-2.0            2.5-3.0           10              60
      Exercise          Stress        8.6 to 9.0          9.0-9.5
                        Rest to       Minimum
                     Stress ratio    x3 injected
                                      Rest dose
                 .       Rest          2.4-2.9           2.5 -3.0           10              30
   Pharmacologic        Stress         5.7-6.2           6.0-6.5
                        Rest to       Minimum
                     Stress ratio    x2 injected
                                      Rest dose

                                               - 124
           Various parameters have been determined for dosing imaging agent 1 in human
   subjects, including injected does, delay between studies, ration of rest to stress dosing,
   and the amount in the syringe compared to the amount injected from the syringe.
 5                                         Example 28
           The following provides results obtained from a study regarding a single-dose
   dosimetry, biodistribution, and safety trial of imaging agent 1 in healthy subjects. Whole
   body PET image data for the 12 healthy volunteers were obtained using imaging agent 1
   at approximately 10 minutes, 30 minutes, 50 minutes, 2 hours, 2.5 hours, 3.83 hours, and
10 4.5 hours post injection. Image data were attenuation corrected at the imaging site, and
   were quantified based on the Medical Internal Radiation Dose (MIRD) 16 methodology
   by Dosimetry Analysis Laboratory, CDE Dosimetry Services (CDE) to determine kinetic
   data in all organs showing significant uptake of activity. Dosimetry estimates were
   created via kinetic modeling of the quantified image data to determine residence times,
15 and the standard MIRD methodology. These estimates were determined using 3
   assumptions regarding urinary bladder voiding intervals (2.0, 3.5, and 4.8 hr). Kinetic
   data, residence times, and the dosimetry estimates are reported for individuals, and as
   summary statistics.
           Terminology. Effective Dose (ED): Developed by the ICRP for occupational
20 radiation protection, the ED enables the comparison of radiation detriment from a
   uniform external dose and a non-uniform internal dose. The risk for a 1 rem ED
   determined for an non-uniform internal dose is equal to the risk from a 1 rem uniform
   external exposure (total body dose). As defined in ICRP publication 60 [ICRP-60 1991].
           Effective Dose Equivalent (EDE):        Developed by the ICRP for occupational
25 radiation protection, the EDE enables the comparison of radiation detriment from a
   uniform external dose and a non-uniform internal dose. The risk for a 1 rem EDE
   determined for an non-uniform internal dose is equal to the risk from a 1 rem uniform
   external exposure (total body dose). As defined in ICRP publication 30 [ICRP-30 1981].
           MIRD Methodology: The methodology developed by the Medical Internal
30 Radiation Dose Committee for the determination of radiation absorbed dose. This
   methodology included the use of radiation transport factors (S-values), and bio-kinetic
   parameters (residence times). As defined in the MIRD Primer, Society of Nuclear
   Medicine, 1991.

                                             - 125
            %CV is Coefficient of variation (Ratio of the standard deviation to the mean
   times 100).
           PercentInjected Dose vs. Time from Whole Body Images. Percent injected
   activity as a function of time was determined for brain, heart wall, kidneys, liver, lungs,
 5 red marrow (lumbar region), salivary glands, spleen, stomach wall, thyroid, and urinary
   bladder. On average, the organ that showed the largest peak uptake was the liver with
   approximately 19.10% of the injected activity (data not shown). The next largest peak
   uptake occurred in the kidneys with approximately 9.4% of the injected activity (data not
   shown).
10         Dosimetry Estimates. On average, for the urinary bladder voiding interval of 3.5
   hours the organ receiving the largest absorbed dose was the kidneys at 0.24 rem/mCi
   (0.066 mSv/MBq) and the heart wall at 0.18 rem/mCi (0.048 mSv/MBq). The mean ED
   (effective dose) was 0.071 rem/mCi (0.019 mSv/MBq). Table 8 shows the absorbed
   dose estimates (rem/mCi). The mean adsorbed dose for the listed organs is found in
15 column one of Table 8.

                          - 126
                         Table 8.
                  Mean         %CV    Min     Max
    Adrenals     5.8E-02         7% 4.9E-02 6.4E-02
      Brain      9.4E-02        25% 5.7E-02 1.3E-01
     Breasts     3.2E-02         8% 2.8E-02 3.5E-02
Gallbladder Wall 6.4E-02         8% 5.4E-02 7.1E-02
    LLI Wall     4.3E-02         8% 3.7E-02 4.8E-02
 Small Intestine 4.7E-02         8% 4.OE-02 5.2E-02
 Stomach Wall    1.5E-01        26% 9.OE-02 2.3E-01
   ULI Wall      4.7E-02         7% 4.1E-02 5.2E-02
   Heart Wall    1.8E-01        17% 1.2E-01 2.4E-O1
    Kidneys      2.4E-O1        22% 1.6E-01 3.5E-01
      Liver      1.5E-01        19% 1.OE-01 1.9E-01
      Lungs      4.2E-02         7% 3.6E-02 4.6E-02
     Muscle      3.8E-02         8% 3.2E-02 4.1E-02
     Ovaries     4.5E-02         8% 3.9E-02 5.OE-02
    Pancreas     5.9E-02         8% 4.8E-02 6.7E-02
  Red Marrow     6.OE-02        11% 4.7E-02 6.9E-02
Osteogenic Cells 6.9E-02         8% 5.7E-02 7.8E-02
    Salivary     1.3E-01        38% 8.6E-02 2.5E-01
       Skin      2.9E-02         8% 2.5E-02 3.2E-02
     Spleen      6.OE-02        21% 4.OE-02 7.6E-02
      Testes     3.4E-02         9% 3.OE-02 3.8E-02
    Thymus       4.1E-02         8% 3.5E-02 4.5E-02
     Thyroid     1.2E-01        30% 7.1E-02 1.8E-01
Urinary Bladder
      Wall       8.4E-02        18% 6.5E-02 1.1E-01
     Uterus      4.6E-02         8% 4.OE-02 5.1E-02
   Total Body    4.5E-02         7% 3.7E-02 4.9E-02
      EDE        8.OE-02        11% 6.3E-02 9.1E-02
       ED        7.1E-02        12% 5.5E-02 8.9E-02

                                                - 127
                                             Example 29
   Results related to a human study of imaging agent 1, a novel    1 8F-labeled tracer for
   myocardial perfusion PET imaging; dosimetry, biodistribution, safety, and imaging
 5 characteristics after a single injection at rest are described.
            Methods: Study population. Healthy adults (as determined by medical history,
   physical examination, vital signs, ECG, EEG, neurological examination, and clinical
   laboratory testing), ages 18-40 years, participated in the study. In order to be enrolled,
   subjects had to meet all protocol-specified inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion
10 criteria.
             Study design. This was a non-randomized, open-label, single-dose study. A total
   of 13 healthy adult subjects were enrolled and administered a single dose of imaging
   agent 1 at a single study center in the United States. Subjects were screened within
   14 days prior to enrollment to confirm subject eligibility, and began baseline assessments
15 at the study center the day before study drug administration. Subjects remained at the
   study center until completion of the Study Day 2 safety assessments (24 ±8 hours post
   dose). A telephone call was made to study subjects 48 ±8 hours post-dose for adverse
   event (AE) monitoring. All subjects returned to the study center approximately one
   week (5-7 days) post-dose for a follow-up safety visit, and were contacted by telephone
20 approximately 14-17 days post-dose for final serious AE monitoring.
            Determination of dose and method of administration. The 8 mCi target dose was
   selected to provide adequate count statistics and was projected to be well below the
   maximum acceptable radiation exposure based on preclinical data. These data
   demonstrated that the maximum dose of imaging agent 1 that may be administered to a
25 human without exceeding 50 mSv (5 rem) to the target was 742 MBq (20.0 mCi) and the
   injected dose that yielded an effective dose (ED) of< 10 mSv (1 rem) was 666 MBq
   (18.0 mCi) (Stabin, M G, Sparks, RB, et al, OLINDA/EXM: the second-generation
   personal computer software for internal dose assessment in nuclear medicine." J Nucl
   Med 2005 46(6):1023-7).
30           On day 1, each subject received a 1-3 mL intravenous bolus injection of imaging
   agent 1 in a sterile solution of<5% ethanol containing <50 mg/mL sodium ascorbate in
   water, calculated to deliver approximately the target dose of imaging agent 1 at the time

                                               - 128
   of injection. The dose was administered in less than 10 seconds, followed immediately
   by a 3-5 mL saline flush.
           The net injected dose was calculated by subtracting the decay-corrected
   radioactivity in the syringe and injection tubing after injection from the assayed and
 5 decay-corrected radioactivity in the syringe prior to injection.
           PET imagingprotocol. Whole-body PET imaging from head to mid thigh was
   performed at protocol-specified time-windows.
           Dosimetry analyses. Estimates of radiation dosimetry for the standard organs of
   the adult male and female models and for the, salivary glands as well as the effective
10 dose equivalent (EDE) (International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP),
   Recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection,
   Publication 26. Ann ICRP. 1977; 1(3)) and the effective dose (ED) (International
   Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP), 1990 Recommendations of the
   International Commission on Radiological Protection, 60. Ann ICRP. 1990; 21(1-3))
15 were determined using the OLINDA/EXM software (Stabin, M G, Sparks, RB, et al,
   OLINDA/EXM: the second-generation personal computer software for internal dose
   assessment in nuclear medicine." J Nucl Med 2005 46(6):1023-7) Assessment of
   radiation dosimetry was based on the MIRD method, with data derived from imaging
   studies, using methods consistent with MIRD Pamphlet no.16 (Siegel JA, Thomas SR,
20 Stubbs JB, et al. MIRD pamphlet no. 16: Techniques for quantitative
   radiopharmaceutical biodistribution data acquisition and analysis for use in human
   radiation dose estimates. JNucl Med. 1999 Feb;40(2):37S-61S).
           The attenuation corrected transverse image data slice planes were combined into
   a single three-dimensional image matrix for each subject and each time point using
25 custom software. These images were then divided into 6 image sets ("anterior",
   "posterior", "salivary", "thyroid", "source", and "full") of combined coronal plane image
   data for each subject at each time point, grouping organs with similar anterior to
   posterior depths. This was done to optimize the ROI creation, and minimize background
   contribution to the organs contained in each combined coronal plane image. The
30 "anterior" images contained stomach wall, heart wall, and urinary bladder. The
   "posterior" images contained kidneys, lumbar spine, and spleen (when visible). The
   "salivary" images contained the salivary glands (parotid and submandibular). The
   "thyroid" images contained the thyroid. The "full" images combined all of the coronal

                                                 - 129
   image planes that contained subject image data and was used for quantification of the
   brain and liver. The "source" images contained the calibration source.
            Regions of interest were drawn around all organs that showed uptake above
   background using custom software developed and validated for this purpose. Absolute
 5 radioactivity was determined by normalizing ROI sums by a calibration factor derived
   from the calibration source. Region counts were also adjusted for activity containing
   underlying and overlying tissue that was not part of the organ or tissue being quantified
   by utilization of background regions of interest. Total body region counts were also
   corrected for off body background counts. Appropriate normalization of region sizes for
10 organ and adjacent regions were made. Unobstructed regions of organs with significant
   overlap from other activity containing organs were also employed where necessary. In
   order to estimate the activity in the lower legs (which were not imaged), a region of
   interest on the upper thigh was utilized. Activities were also normalized where
   necessary to account for 100% of the injected activity, and to insure conservative (slight
15 over-estimates) determination of absorbed dose. Where urinary excretion data were
   available beyond the end of the imaging regimen, these data were used to determine
   whole body retention.
            Kinetic data for brain, heart wall, kidneys, liver, red marrow (lumbar spine
   regions were utilized), salivary glands, spleen, stomach wall, thyroid, and urinary
20 bladder for the subjects in the study were determined using image quantification
   methodology. Absolute activity was converted to fractional dose by dividing by the total
   activity administered. Organ and tissue data were fit using non-linear least-squares
   regression with sums of exponentials of the form shown in Equation 1, where f and k are
   the model parameters that are determined in the fitting process, F 1(t) is the fraction of the
25 total injected activity, t is the time post injection, i is the ith ROI, j is the jth subject, and k
   is the kth exponential term. Between one and four exponential terms were employed, as
   appropriate.
                          F,(t) =      Z  fke      "'Equation                            1.
                                        k
            The regression was performed using custom software that determines initial
30 parameter values based on the temporal variation of the kinetic data, and the use of pre
   tabulated estimates for various time activity scenarios as selected by the user. Once
   these data were fit, residence times were determined by integration of these empirically

                                                - 130
   determined functions (sums of exponentials) from time equal zero to infinity, taking into
   account physical decay. Remainder of Body residence times were determined by
   subtraction of appropriate organ residence times from whole body residence times.
   Urinary bladder residence times were determined using the parameters determined by
 5 fitting the whole body activity data with a urinary bladder model as implemented in the
   OLINDA/EXM software with 3.5 hour bladder voiding interval. Red marrow residence
   time was determined based on a region of interest drawn on a portion of the lumbar
   spine. The lumbar spine was assumed to contain 16.10% (International Commission on
   Radiological Protection (ICRP) Publication 23, Report of the Task Group on Reference
10 Man. Pergamon Press. 1975, page 125) of the total red marrow.
            Organ/Tissue Dosimetry Estimates. Absorbed dose estimates for all target organs
   were determined using the OLINDA/EXM software using the adult "male" model. The
   resulting absorbed dose estimates were scaled based on the total body mass of the
   individual subjects relative to that of the radiation transport phantom. Salivary gland
15 dosimetry was determined by using a conservative estimate of the S-value for salivary
   glands based on the reference man total mass of the parotid and submaxilary salivary
   glands (International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) Publication 23,
   Report of the Task Group on Reference Man. Pergamon Press. 1975, page 125) and
   assuming a spherical shape. S-Values for spheres were produced by the OLINDA/EXM
20 software, and were linearly scaled based on the relative total body mass of reference man
   to that of subject. These S-values were then multiplied by the residence times to produce
   final salivary gland dose estimates.
            StatisticalAnalyses. All statistical analyses and all summary tables and listings
   were prepared using SAS@ release 9.1.3 (SAS Institute, Inc., Cary, NC). Standard
25 descriptive summaries included the N, mean, median, standard deviation (SD) and/or co
   efficient of variation (%CV), minimum and maximum for continuous variables, and the
   number and percent for categorical variables.
            Results: Patientdemography. Of the 26 subjects who were screened, 13 subjects
   (12 males and one female) were administered imaging agent 1, and completed all safety
30 evaluations. The mean age was 23.4 years (range: 19-34 years) and the mean BMI was
   23.4 (range: 20-26). One patient was not included in the analyses of dosimetry,
   biodistribution and radiokinetics, due to the inability to confirm the dose calibrator assay
   data for the standards preparation.

                                             - 131
           Radiation dosimetry. The intravenous bolus injection was calculated to deliver
   no more than 8 mCi of 18F at the time of injection. The mean (SD) final decay-corrected
   dose was 6 (0.6) mCi of 18F, with a range of 4.6 to 6.6 mCi (170 to 244 MBq). The
   difference between the target dose and the final dose was due to the retention of imaging
 5 agent 1 in the syringe.
           The absorbed dose summary statistics are presented in Table 9 (mSv/MBq). The
   organ receiving the largest mean absorbed dose was the kidneys at 0.066 mSv/MBq
   (0.24 rem/mCi), followed by the heart wall at 0.048 mSv/MBq (0.18 rem/mCi). The
   mean ED was 0.019 mSv/MBq (0.072 rem/mCi).
10
       Table 9. Absorbed Dose Estimates (mSv/MBq), N= 12, Void Interval        = 3.5 hours.
                                  Mean            %CV              Min             Max
             Adrenals           1.6E a -02          7%           1.3E-02         1.7E-02
               Brain             2.5E-02           25%           1.5E-02         3.6E-02
              Breasts            8.8E-03            8%          7.5E-03          9.6E-03
         Gallbladder Wall        1.7E-02            8%           1.5E-02         1.9E-02
             LLI Wall            1.2E-02            8%           1.OE-02         1.3E-02
          Small Intestine        1.3E-02            8%           1.1E-02         1.4E-02
          Stomach Wall           4.OE-02           26%          2.4E-02          6.2E-02
             ULI Wall            1.3E-02            7%           1.1E-02         1.4E-02
            Heart Wall           4.8E-02           17%          3.4E-02          6.4E-02
             Kidneys             6.6E-02           22%          4.4.E-02         9.5E-02
               Liver             3.9E-02           19%          2.7E-02          5.2E-02
               Lungs             1.1E-02            7%          9.7E-03          1.2E-02
              Muscle             1.OE-02            8%          8.7E-03          1.3E-02
              Ovaries            1.2E-02            8%          1.1E-02          1.3E-02
             Pancreas            1.6E-02            8%           1.3E-02         1.8E-02
           Red Marrow            1.6E-02           11%           1.3E-02         1.9E-02
         Osteogenic Cells        1.9E-02            8%           1.6E-02         2.1E-02
             Salivary            3.5E-02           38%          2.3E-02          6.8E-02
                Skin             7.9E-03            8%          6.8E-03          8.7E-03
              Spleen             1.6E-02           21%           1.1E-02         2.1E-02
               Testes            9.2E-03            9%          8.1E-03          1.OE-02
             Thymus              1.1E-02            8%          9.6E-03          1.2E-02
              Thyroid            3.2E-02           30%           1.9E-02         4.9E-02
      Urinary Bladder Wall       2.3E-02           18%           1.7E-02         3.OE-02
              Uterus             1.2E-02            8%           1.1E-02         1.4E-02
            Total Body           1.2E-02            7%           1.OE-02         1.3E-02
               EDE               2.2E-02           11%           1.7E-02         2.5E-02
                ED               1.9E-02           12%           1.5E-02         2.4E-02

                                                - 132
      a "E"  followed by a "-" is the exponent multiple of 3 convention for decimal
      presentation.
            Whole-organ biodistribution. The biodistribution of imaging agent 1, calculated
 5 as the whole-organ percent injected radioactivity as a function of time, was determined
   for brain, heart wall, kidneys, liver, lungs, red marrow (lumbar region), salivary glands,
   spleen, stomach wall, thyroid, and urinary bladder (Table 10 and Figure 11). Figure 11
   shows whole body coronal images through the body at the level of the myocardium from
   a representative subject at different time points after administration of imaging agent 1.
10 Images have been corrected for     18F decay. It can be seen that the heart exhibits high and
   sustained retention of 18F from the earliest images through approximately 5 hours after
   injection. The liver also appears, generally exhibiting an intensity similar to that of the
   heart, peaking between 10 and 30 minutes after injection and clearing by approximately
   2 hours. The organ that showed the largest mean peak uptake was the liver with
15 approximately 19.1% of the injected activity. The next largest mean peak uptake
   occurred in the kidneys with approximately 9.4% of the injected activity, followed by the
   brain with approximately 8.3% of the injected activity. Data from subjects in the study
   were used to determine the urinary excretion rate for each subject and the residence time
   for radioactivity in the bladder using a standard model, with a theoretical fixed voiding
20 interval of 3.5 hours post-dose. The largest mean residence times were for remainder
   tissues (1.8 hours), liver (0.28 hours), and brain (0.14 hours). Summary residence time
   statistics are presented in Table 11.

                                               - 133
    Table 10. Mean Percent (%) Administered Dose versus Time (Hours Post-dose) N=12,
                                        18
                                          F, Decay Corrected.
                          0.17 hr    0.50hr    0.83 hr 2.0 hr     2.5 hr  3.83 hr 4.5 hr
                          a
       Whole Body          100.0     99.8%     99.7%    98.2%     98.1%   96.8%      96.9%
                          0
       Brain               8.3%      7.9%      7.3%     4.7%      4.1%    3.2%      2.9%
       GI Stomach         2.5%       2.4%      2.2%     0.7%      0.7%    0.6%       0.6%
       Wall
       Heart Wall         3.1%       3.2%      3.4%     2.4%      2.5%    2.1%      2.1%
       Kidneys            9.4%       6.5%      4.9%     1.6%      1.6%    1.2%       1.1%
       Liver               19.1%      18.0%    16.4%    7.5%      7.0%    4.5%      4.7%
       Marrow             0.3%       0.3%      0.3%     NA       NA       NA        NA
       (lumbar)
       Salivary           0.6%       0.7%      0.6%     0.5%      0.5%    0.4%       0.4%
       Spleen             0. 9%      0.6%      0.4%     0.3%      0.3%    0.3%      NA
       Thyroid            0.1%       0.1%      0.1%     0.1%      0.1%    0.1%       0.1%
       Urinary Bladder    0.3%       0.2%      0.3%     0.9%      1.1%    1.4%       1.7%
     aNominal    times in hours post-dose (beginning of time window)
     NA=not available
 5
       Table 11. Residence Times (Hours) Summary Statistics (N=12, Void Interval=3.5
                                               Hours).
                                    Mean            %CV              Min           Max
      Brain                       1.38E-01        2.69E-01       8.68E-02       2.08E-01
      GI Stomach Wall             3.30E-02        4.46E-01       1.53E-02       6.11E-02
      Heart Wall                  7.28E-02        1.83E-01       4.82E-02        1.01E-01
      Kidneys                     9.52E-02        2.35E-01       6.1OE-02        1.43E-01
      Liver                       2.77E-01        2.22E-01       1.83E-01       3.94E-01
      Red Marrow                  8.86E-02        2.1OE-01       6.72E-02        1.17E-01
      Salivary                    1.48E-02        3.24E-0 1      9.68E-03       2.63E-02
      Spleen                      1.01E-02        1.87E-01       7.26E-03        1.25E-02
      Thyroid                     3.31E-03        3.13E-01       1.72E-03       5.06E-03
      Urinary Bladder             2.65E-02        3.35E-01       1.40E-02       4.50E-02
      Remainder of Body          1.84E+00         7.86E-02       1.65E+00       2.08E+00
     a "E" followed by a "-" is the exponent multiple of 3 convention for decimal
     presentation
10         Early elimination of' 8 F in urine. Urine collected pre-dose (Baseline), and all
   voids up to 8 hours post-dose were collected and assayed for 18F. However, as in blood
   collection, the urine collection terminated near the 7-hour minimum specified in the
   protocol. Mean urinary excretion over the approximate 7-hour void interval was 4.83
   %ID with a %CV of 64.7 and a range of 0.64 %ID to 12.41 %ID. This finding is in

                                              - 134
   reasonable agreement with cumulative urine excretion of 5% as measured with PET
   imaging.
           Discussion: The critical organ for imaging agent 1 was the kidneys, with a mean
   estimated dose of 0.066 mSv/MBq (0.24 rem/mCi) The maximum injected dose of the
 5 compound that may be administered without exceeding 50 mSv to the critical organ is
   therefore 770 MBq. This is somewhat higher than the 185 MBq to 370 mBq
   recommended in the widely-used guidance by the Center for Drug Evaluation and
   Research (CDER) that describes recommended package insert wording for facilities
   applying to manufacture [ 1"F]-FDG) (PET Drug Applications - Content and Format for
10 NDAs and ANDAs: Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection, Ammonia N 13 Injection, Sodium
   Fluoride F 18 Injection, Attachment II, Sample Formats; Labeling for Ammonia N 13
   Injection, Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection and Sodium Fluoride F 18 Injection,
   Attachment II (CDER 2000)). This behavior is a result of the very rapid urinary
   excretion of a large fraction of [ IF]-FDG shortly after administration, resulting in a
15 substantially higher exposure to the urinary bladder for that compound compared with
   that of imaging agent 1. The ED due to imaging agent 1 (0.019 mSv/MBq), is the same
   as the ED of [I8F]-FDG (International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP),
   Radiation Dose to Patients from Radiopharmaceuticals, Addendum 2 to ICRP
   Publication 53, Publication 80, Ann ICRP. 1999; 28(3)). It can therefore be concluded
20 that the radiation dose from imaging agent 1 is comparable to or less than that due to
   [' 8F]-FDG.
            Since the mean estimated effective dose (ED) for imaging agent 1 is 0.019
   mSv/MBq (0.072 rem/mCi), the maximum injected dose that may be administered
   without exceeding 10 mSv ED is therefore 521 MBq.
25          The radiation dose estimates from this study are consistent with those derived
   from non-human primates (Lazewatsky J, Azure M, Guaraldi M et al. Dosimetry of
   BMS747158, a novel 18F labeled tracer for myocardial perfusion imaging, in nonhuman
   primates at rest. JNucl Med. 2009;49(Supplement 1): 15p.) and the high and sustained
   retention of imaging agent 1 in the heart is consistent with data in both non-human
30 primates and in other species (Yu M, Guaraldi MT, Mistry M, Kagan M, McDonald JL,
   Drew K, Radeke H, Purohit A, Azure M, Casebier DS, Robinson SP. BMS-747158-02: a
   Novel PET Myocardial Perfusion Imaging Agent. Journal Nuclear Cardiology 2007
   Nov-Dec;14(6):789-98). Although the critical organ in the primate-derived estimates

                                               - 135
   was seen to be the heart wall, the estimated human radiation dose for the heart wall in
   that study was 0.067 mSv/MBq, which is very similar to the critical organ value of 0.066
   mSv/MBq seen for the kidneys in this study. The doses to both organs were among the
   highest in both the non-human primates-derived results and in the current study and are
 5 within two standard deviations of one another.
            Imaging agent 1 was well-tolerated and no clinically significant safety concerns
   were raised. Changes from baseline in vital signs, laboratory values (hematology,
   coagulation, clinical chemistry and urinalysis), ECGs, and EEGs were not clinically
   significant. Potential cardiotoxicity (signaled through coagulation studies and changes in
10 Troponin-T levels) were not exhibited. Physical and neurological examinations did not
   reveal any pre-dose or post-dose abnormalities. The DMC did not raise safety concerns
   following periodic reviews of the safety data.
            The results obtained in this study demonstrated that imaging agent 1 appeared to
   be safe and was well tolerated and exhibited a substantial and sustained retention in
15 myocardium. The critical organ after resting injection of imaging agent 1 was
   determined to be the kidneys with 0.066 mSv/MBq. Based on the observed mean ED,
   the maximum injected dose that may be administered without exceeding 1 rem ED is 14
   mCi (521 MBq). The ED from imaging agent lis the same as that of [ IF]-FDG, while
   the critical organ (kidney) dose of imaging agent 1 is significantly less than the critical
20 organ (urinary bladder) dose of [' 8F]-FDG.
                                             Example 30
            The following example describes studies relating to cardiac imaging and safety
   evaluation of imaging agent 1, a novel PET myocardial perfusion imaging agent, in
25 chronic myocardial compromised rabbits.
            Imaging agent 1 is an  18F labeled imaging agent for myocardial perfusion
   imaging (MPI) with positron emission tomography (PET) (Yu M, Guaraldi MT, Mistry
   M, Kagan M, McDonald JL, Drew K et al.: a novel PET myocardial perfusion imaging
   agent. J Nucl Cardiol 2007;14:789-98). Cardiac imaging with this agent shows clear
30 myocardium and identification of acute myocardial ischemia and tissue necrosis in
   animal models of acute coronary ligation and ischemia reperfusion injury (Yu M,
   Guaraldi MT, Mistry M, Kagan M, McDonald JL, Drew K et al.: a novel PET
   myocardial perfusion imaging agent. J Nucl Cardiol 2007;14:789-98; Nekolla SG, Reder
   S, Higuchi T, Dzewas G, Poethko T, Preissl A et al. Assessment of Imaging Properties

                                               - 136
   of a New F-18 Labelled Flow Tracer in a Pig Model. J Am Coll Cardiol 2008;51:A170;
   and Maddahi J, Schiepers C, Czernin J, Huang H, Schelbert H, Wijatyk A et al. First
   human study of BMS747158, a novel F-18 labeled tracer for myocardial perfusion
   imaging. J Nucl Med 2008;49:70P). In model systems imaging agent 1 has demonstrated
 5 superior characteristics over the currently available MPI agents. In comparison with
   single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) based agents (99mTc-Sestamibi
   and 20 1Thalium), Imaging agent 1 has the advantage of PET technology with accurate
   attenuation correction and quantification of myocardial perfusion in absolute terms.
   Furthermore, imaging agent 1 heart uptake correlates better with myocardial perfusion at
10 a large range of flow rates invitro 1 and at rest and stress conditions in-vivo (Nekolla SG,
   Reder S, Saraste A, Higuchi T, Dzewas G, Preissel A et al. Evaluation of the novel
   myocardial perfusion positron-emission tomography tracer 18F-BMS-747158-02:
   comparison to 13N-ammonia and validation with microspheres in a pig model.
                                                                                     13
   Circulation 2009;119:2333-42). In comparison with current PET agents, like           N
15 Ammonia and 82 Rubidium, the long half-life (110 minutes) of 18F enables imaging agent
   1 to be radio-synthesized and supplied centrally. It also provides the opportunity f'or
   imaging under excise stress, in addition to pharmacological stress.
            Safety and radio-dosimetry studies in multiple normal species show imaging
   agent 1 has acceptable safety margin for clinical development (Mistry M, Onthank D,
20 Green J, Cicio S, Casebier D, Robinson S et al. Toxicological Evaluation of BMS
   747158, a PET Myocardial Perfusion Imaging Agent. The Toxicologist 2008;102:476;
   and Lazewatsky J, Azure M, Guaraldi M, Kagan M, MacDonald J, Yu M et al.
   Dosimetry of BMS747158, a novel 18F labeled tracer for myocardial perfusion imaging,
   in nonhuman primates at rest. J Nucl Med 2009;49:15p). The critical organ for radiation
25 is the heart and the radiation doses were comparable with the commercial available agent
   18
      F-fluorodeoxyglucose (Lazewatsky J, Azure M, Guaraldi M, Kagan M, MacDonald J,
   Yu M et al. Dosimetry of BMS747158, a novel 18F labeled tracer for myocardial
   perfusion imaging, in nonhuman primates at rest. J Nucl Med 2009;49:15p).
            Methods: Rabbit Model ofMyocardial Infarction. Male New Zealand rabbits
30 (body weight 2.5-3.5 kg) were purchased from Harlan (Oakwood, MI) and maintained in
   the AAALAC-accredited Animal Care Facility at Lantheus Medical Imaging. The study
   protocol was approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. The
   procedure of developing a rabbit model of myocardial infarction (MI) was similar to the

                                                - 137
   method described previously (Fujita M, Morimoto Y, Ishihara M, Shimizu M, Takase B,
   Maehara T et al. A new rabbit model of myocardial infarction without endotracheal
   intubation. J Surg Res 2004; 116:124-8). Briefly, the rabbit was anesthetized with
   ketamine (40 mg/Kg, im) and xylazine (9 mg/Kg, im) and placed in a supine position.
 5 The surgery was performed under aseptic conditions. A mid-sternotomy was performed
   carefully to avoid injury of parietal pleura. The pericardial sac was exposed and incised.
   The left ventricular anterior and lateral wall was revealed and a major branch of the left
   coronary artery was ligated. Success of the ligation was verified by the color change to
   pale in the affected area of the left ventricular wall. The chest was then closed and the
10 animal allowed to recover. Four weeks after the surgery, the rabbit was used for the
   imaging and cardiovascular evaluation study.
           Imaging and CardiovascularEvaluation. PET images and cardiovascular
   parameters were evaluated in both normal and MI rabbits. Prior to imaging, the rabbit
   was anesthetized with ketamine (25 mg/Kg, im) and xylazine (5 mg/Kg, im) and the
15 marginal ear vein was catheterized for imaging agent 1 injection. The right femoral
   artery was isolated and canulated with a Millar catheter (SPC340, Millar Instruments,
   Houston, TX) for arterial pressure measurement. Then the animal was positioned in a
   microPET camera (Focus220, CTI Molecular Imaging, Inc. Knoxville, TN) for cardiac
   imaging. The Millar catheter was connected to a computer driven data acquisition
20 system (MP35, BIOPAC Systems, Goleta, CA) for recording of mean arterial pressure
   (MAP), and systolic and diastolic arterial pressure (SAP and DAP). In addition,
   electrocardiogram (ECG) was also recorded with 3 non-invasive limb leads in lead II
   configuration using the BIOPAC system. Heart rate (HR) and QT interval were derived
   from ECG recording. After a stabilization period, cardiovascular parameters: MAP,
25 SBP, DBP and ECG, were recorded 5 minutes before imaging agent 1 intravenous
   injection (~1.5 mCi) and the recording continued for additional 20 minutes post
   injection. The rabbit was imaged for 30 minutes.
           Image Reconstruction and Analysis. After the acquisition, images were
   reconstructed in a matrix of 256 x 256 pixels with 95 transverse slices using the
30 OSEM2D algorithm and decay corrected (microPET Manager and ASIPro, CTI
   Molecular Imaging, Inc. Knoxville, TN). The pixel size was 0.47 mm and the slice
   thickness was 0.80 mm. The images were reoriented regarding cardiac axis and serial
   tomographic cardiac image frames were then generated for a 10-minute period from 20

                                               - 138
   to 30 minutes. Polar map images were then generated from reconstructed cardiac short
   axis image using QPS 2008 software (Cedars-Sinai Medical
   Center, Los Angles, CA).
           RadiopharmaceuticalAgent. The chemical structure and radiosynthesis of
 5 imaging agent 1 have been described previously (Yu M, Guaraldi MT, Mistry M, Kagan
   M, McDonald JL, Drew K et al.: a novel PET myocardial perfusion imaging agent. J
   Nucl Cardiol 2007;14:789-98; and Purohit A, Radeke H, Azure M, Hanson K, Benetti R,
   Su F et al. Synthesis and biological evaluation of pyridazinone analogues as potential
   cardiac positron emission tomography tracers. J Med Chem 2008;51:2954-70). The
10 radiochemical purity used in this study was 99.1-   9 9 .9%, and the specific activity was
   3265-7016 Ci/mmol. The agent was prepared in 5% ethanol (v/v) and 50 mg/ml ascorbic
   acid in water following the clinical protocol.
           Data Analysis. Data are expressed as mean ± SD and unpaired student t-test
   (assuming unequal variances) was used for comparison of baseline values between
15 control and MI rabbits. p<0.05 was considered statistically significant. At each
   timepoint (before and 1-, 5-, 10- and 20-minute after imaging agent 1 injection), MAP,
   SAP and DAP measured intraarterially averaged every 10-second, and HR and QTc
   interval derived from ECG recording averaged every 12 heart beats. The QT interval
   was manually defined by one investigator and QTc was generated from QT corrected by
20 RR interval using Fridericia method (QTc=QT/RR1/3).9
           Results: The body weight of control and MI rabbits at the time of study was
   similar (3.35±0.19 versus 3.06±0.28 kg).
           CardiacImages Representative cardiac short-, long-axis and polar map images of
   control and MI rabbits are shown in Figure 12. Figure 12 shows representative cardiac
25 images of imaging agent 1 in control and chronic myocardial infarct (MI) rabbits. These
   images were acquired at 20-30 min after imaging agent 1 injection and presented in
   cardiac short- and long-axis views, and polar maps. Defect areas were clearly identified
   in the MI rabbit. In the control rabbit, the myocardium was clearly visible with uniform
   distribution of radioactivity and minimal background interference. In the MI rabbit, a
30 perfusion defect area in the left ventricular wall was clearly detected in the cardiac short
   and long-axis, and polar map views.
           ECG Evaluation. As shown in Table 12, baseline ECG tracing (before imaging
   agent 1 injection) recorded in lead II configuration showed a normal waveform with

                                               - 139
   positive QRS complexes and T waves in the control rabbit. In contrast, the QRS
   complex and T wave were negative with enlarged         Q wave in the MI rabbit. The study
   obtained ECG tracing before, 1-min and 5-min after imaging agent 1 injection in control
   and myocardial infarct (MI) rabbits. Table 12 shows baseline values of QTc interval
 5 (corrected by Fridericia method) and averaged changes from the baseline at 1, 5, 10 and
   20 min after imaging agent 1 injection in control and MI rabbits. Similar to control, no
   changes in ECG wave form and QTc interval were observed after injection in MI rabbits.
                                             Table 12.
                                               Changes from baseline after injection
          QTc           Baseline       1 min            5 min          10 min         20 min
         (msec)
    Control (n=3)        319±17         2±15            -1±11           6±20            9±15
       MI (n=4)          288±17          8±5              4±6           4±8             3±12
10
            However, the baseline values of QTc and HR (Table 12 and Table 13) were
   comparable in these two groups. Intravenous administration of imaging agent 1 did not
   alter the ECG waveform, cardiac rhythm, HR and QTc interval from the baseline values
   at 1-, 5-, 10- and 20-minute post injection in either control or MI rabbits. The study, in
15 part, showed averaged heart rate (HR) tracings of control and myocardial infarct (MI)
   rabbits 5-min before and 20-min after imaging agent 1 administration. Table 13 shows
   baseline values of HR and averaged changes from the baseline at 1, 5, 10 and 20 min
   after the injection in control and MI rabbits. Similar to control, no changes in HR were
   observed after injection in MI rabbits.
20
                                             Table 13.
                                               Changes from baseline after injection
     Heart rate       Baseline         1 min            5 min          10 min         20 min
    (beat/min)
      Control           159±8           -4±2             -2±1           -2±4            -4±4
         MI            162±36            6±5              3±8            1±6           -7±10
            ArterialPressureMeasurement. In contrast to HR and QTc, the baseline values
   of MAP, SAP and DAP (Table 14 and Table 15) were significantly lower in MI rabbits
25 than in control rabbits. In control rabbits, injection of imaging agent 1 did not induce
   changes in MAP (Table 14), SAP and DAP (Table 15). In agreement with the control

                                              - 140
   animal, no alterations of these parameters were observed in the MI rabbits during and
   after administration of imaging agent 1. The study, in part, demonstrated averaged mean
   arterial pressure (AP) tracings of control and myocardial infarct (MI) rabbits 5-min
   before and 20-min after imaging agent 1 administration. Table 14 shows baseline values
 5 of mean AP and averaged changes from the baseline at 1, 5, 10 and 20 min after the
   injection in control and MI rabbits. Similar to control, no changes in mean AP were
   observed after injection in MI rabbits. * indicates p<0.05 vs. control. The study, in part,
   demonstrated averaged systolic and diastolic arterial pressure (AP) tracings of control
   and myocardial infarct (MI) rabbits 5-min before and 20-min after imaging agent 1
10 administration. Table 15 shows baseline values of systolic and diastolic AP and
   averaged changes from the baseline at 1, 5, 10, and 20 min after the injection in control
   and MI rabbits. Similar to control, no changes in mean AP were observed after injection
   in MI rabbits. * indicates p<0.05 vs. control.
15                                           Table 14.
                                              Changes from baseline after injection
     Mean AP          Baseline         1 min           5 min         10 min         20 min
      (mmHg)
       Control         89±11            0±0            -2±0           -2±3           -1±6
         MI            61±6*            2±1             2±2           -1±2            2±3
                                             Table 15.
                                              Changes from baseline after injection
         AP           Baseline         1 min           5 min         10 min         20 min
      (mmHg)
    Systolic AP       114±11            0±1            -2±1           -1±6            0±5
       Control
         M1           79±11*            1±2             2±2            0±1            1±7
   Diastolic AP        76±10            0±1            -1±2            0±5            0±5
       Control
         MI            53±4*            1±1             2±2            1±1            2±2
            Discussion: The study was designed to study imaging agent 1 as a PET imaging
20 agent for evaluation of myocardial perfusion in diagnosis and prognosis of coronary
   heart disease. It was evaluated for safety in normal animals and imaged in animal
   models of acute myocardial ischemia and MI induced by ischemia-reperfusion injury
   (Yu M, Guaraldi MT, Mistry M, Kagan M, McDonald JL, Drew K et al.: a novel PET
   myocardial perfusion imaging agent. J Nucl Cardiol 2007;14:789-98; Nekolla SG, Reder

                                               - 141
   S, Higuchi T, Dzewas G, Poethko T, Preissl A et al. Assessment of Imaging Properties
   of a New F-18 Labelled Flow Tracer in a Pig Model. J Am Coll Cardiol 2008;51:A170;
   and Mistry M, Onthank D, Green J, Cicio S, Casebier D, Robinson S et al. Toxicological
   Evaluation of BMS-747158, a PET Myocardial Perfusion Imaging Agent. The
 5 Toxicologist 2008;102:476). This study was designed to further assess this agent in a
   chronic cardiac compromised animal model. The model was created by chronic ligation
   of coronary artery in rabbits. This rabbit model was chosen based on several
   characteristics: 1) Similar to humans and compared to other species, rabbits have poor
   collateral circulation in the heart and develop MI readily after sudden coronary artery
10 occlusion (Bell DR. Special Circulations. In: Rhoades R, Bell DR, editors. Medical
   Physiology: Principlesfor ClinicalMedicine. 3rd ed. 2008. p. 290-304; and Maxwell
   MP, Hearse DJ, Yellon DM. Species variation in the coronary collateral circulation
   during regional myocardial ischaemia: a critical determinant of the rate of evolution and
   extent of myocardial infarction. Cardiovasc Res 1987;21:737-46). 2) Cardiac fibroblasts
15 and regulation of collagen biosynthesis, which are critical in wound healing after
   myocardial injury, in rabbits are similar to that observed in humans with regard to
   angiotensin system (Gallagher AM, Bahnson TD, Yu H, Kim NN, Printz MP. Species
   variability in angiotensin receptor expression by cultured cardiac fibroblasts and the
   infarcted heart. Am J Physiol 1998;274:H801-H809). 3) After coronary ligation, plasma
20 and myocardial norepinephrine levels increase (Makino T, Hattori Y, Matsuda N,
   Onozuka H, Sakuma I, Kitabatake A. Effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme
   inhibition and angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade on beta-adrenoceptor signaling in
   heart failure produced by myocardial Infarction in rabbits: reversal of altered expression
   of beta-adrenoceptor kinase and G i alpha. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 2003;304:370-9; and
25 Fujii T, Yamazaki T, Akiyama T, Sano S, Mori H. Extraneuronal enzymatic degradation
   of myocardial interstitial norepinephrine in the ischemic region. Cardiovasc Res
   2004;64:125-31). Norepinephrine clearance in the heart of rabbit is mainly via neuronal
   norepinephrine transporter (Gao DW, Stillson CA, O'Connell JW. Absence of MIBG
   uptake in the denervated rabbit heart. J Nucl Med 1996;37:106p), similar to in humans
30 (Eisenhofer G, Friberg P, Rundqvist B, Quyyumi AA, Lambert G, Kaye DM et al.
   Cardiac sympathetic nerve function in congestive heart failure. Circulation
   1996;93:1667-76). 5) Species size is appropriate for high quality PET imaging in a
   microPET camera while allowing concurrent ECG monitoring. In contrast to ECG

                                                - 142
   waveform in the control rabbit, a negative QRS complex with an enlarged       Q wave  and
   inverted T wave were observed in lead II configuration in the MI rabbit, indicating an
   abnormal ventricular depolarization and repolarization. Following complete obstruction
   of a coronary artery branch (coronary ligation), oxygen carried to the region is reduced
 5 or ceased depending on collateral circulation, leading to cell death and tissue necrosis. A
   rapid tissue repair process is then started, including initial inflammation followed by
   angiogenesis, increased fibroblast proliferation and collagen production and deposition.
   These changes ultimately result in formation of scar tissue to 10 rebuild the necrotic
   region in the heart (Abbate A, Biondi-Zoccai GG, Van Tassell BW, Baldi A. Cellular
10 preservation therapy in acute myocardial infarction. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol
   2009;296:H563-H565; and Sun Y, Weber KT. Infarct scar: a dynamic tissue. Cardiovasc
   Res 2000;46:250-6). Histological examination has indicated that increased fibroblast
   proliferation and scar formation initiate at about 2 and 18 days respectively post coronary
   ligation in rabbits (Morales C, Gonzalez GE, Rodriguez M, Bertolasi CA, Gelpi RJ.
15 Histopathologic time course of myocardial infarct in rabbit hearts. Cardiovasc Pathol
   2002;11:339- 45). In present study, the formation of scar tissue in the left ventricle of
   our rabbits 4-week post coronary ligation is consistent with the findings of enlarged   Q
   wave in ECG 20 and in other similar studies (Gonzalez GE, Palleiro J, Monroy S, Perez
   S, Rodriguez M, Masucci A et al. Effects of the early administration of losartan on the
20 functional and morphological aspects of postmyocardial infarction ventricular
   remodeling in rabbits. Cardiovasc Pathol 2005;14:88-95; and Connelly CM, Vogel WM,
   Wiegner AW, Osmers EL, Bing OH, Kloner RA et al. Effects of reperfusion after
   coronary artery occlusion on post-infarction scar tissue. Circ Res 1985;57:562-77).
   Previously, imaging agent 1 has been demonstrated to be capable of detecting regions of
25 acute myocardial ischemia and necrosis induced by coronary ligation and ischemia
   reperfusion injury in rats, rabbits and pigs (Yu M, Guaraldi MT, Mistry M, Kagan M,
   McDonald JL, Drew K et al.: a novel PET myocardial perfusion imaging agent. J Nucl
   Cardiol 2007;14:789-981; Nekolla SG, Reder S, Saraste A, Higuchi T, Dzewas G,
   Preissel A et al. Evaluation of the novel myocardial perfusion positron-emission
30 tomography tracer 18F-BMS-747158-02: comparison to 13N-ammonia and validation
   with microspheres in a pig model. Circulation 2009; 119:2333-42; and Higuchi T,
   Nekolla SG, Huisman MM, Reder S, Poethko T, Yu M et al. A new 18F-labeled
   myocardial PET tracer: myocardial uptake after permanent and transient coronary

                                               - 143
   occlusion in rats. J Nucl Med 2008;49:1715-22). Imaging in this study in a rabbit model
   of chronic MI clearly demonstrated that imaging agent 1 imaging can detect chronic MI,
   possibly scar tissue suggested by ECG and other studies. imaging agent 1 has high
   affinity to mitochondrial complex I and, at very high concentrations (>200 pg/kg),
 5 induces transit clinical signs, such as rapid and labored breathing, decreased activity,
   hunched posture, urination, in normal rats and dogs (Mistry M, Onthank D, Green J,
   Cicio S, Casebier D, Robinson S et al. Toxicological Evaluation of BMS-747158, a PET
   Myocardial Perfusion Imaging Agent. The Toxicologist 2008;102:476). However, these
   signs were not observed when the dose was equal or below 100 tg/kg. In anesthetized
10 naive dogs, no cardiovascular changes (MAP, HR, left ventricular contractility etc) were
   observed during and after intravenously injection of imaging agent 1 at doses of equal or
   less than 10 ptg/kg (unpublished data). This represents a large safety margin over the
   maximal clinical imaging agent 1 dose of 0.07 pg/'kg.
            In the present study, baseline values of MAP, SAP and DAP were lower in the
15 MI rabbits than in control rabbits, indicating the chronic MI had compromised the
   cardiovascular system in these rabbits. The dose of imaging agent 1 used for rabbit
   imaging was in the clinical formulation and approximately 0.5 mCi/kg (~1.5 mCi in a 3
   kg rabbit) which is also approximately 3-fold higher than the clinical dose (total rest and
   stress 11 doses: ~10 mCi in a 60 kg individual). With this dose and in a cardiac
20 compromised condition, no change in arterial pressure, heart rates and ECG waveform
   were produced. These findings indicate that imaging with imaging agent 1 is safe even
   in a cardiac compromised condition.
            The results show that cardiac PET imaging with imaging agent 1 detects chronic
   myocardial infarction (fibrosis and scar formation) in addition to myocardial ischemia
25 and necrosis under an acute condition. At imaging dose levels, imaging agent 1 is safe to
   be used even in cardiac compromised condition, at least in rabbits.
                                             Example 31
            The following example describes brain imaging of imaging agent 1 and
30 evaluation of the blood brain barrier permeability in rats. PET imaging in animals and
   humans indicate this compound crosses the normal blood brain barrier (BBB) and can
   image CNS disease. Studies to date have not assessed how effectively imaging agent 1

                                               - 144
   crosses the BBB. The present studies compared brain uptake in rats in the presence and
   absence of BBB disruption.
           Methods: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with sodium
   pentobarbital and the left external carotid artery was cannulated close to the internal and
 5 external carotid bifurcation. Using saline as control and 25% D-mannitol as hypertonic
   solution, each were perfused retrogradely in six animals (0.3 mL/kg/sec) for 30 seconds.
   Two minutes later, ~1 mCi imaging agent 1 was injected via tail vein and the brain was
   imaged with a microPET camera for 30 minutes. Evans blue ( 2 %, 5 mL/kg) was also
   injected intravenously and only animals demonstrating clear BBB disruption by Evans
10 blue staining were included in the study. Following completion of imaging, the brain
   was harvested, photographed and dissected into left and right hemispheres and
   cerebellum. The tissue content of imaging agent 1 radioactivity was measured by
   gamma counter and Evans blue levels were determined by fluorescence method for
   calculation of the % injected dose/gram tissue and pg Evan blue/gram tissue,
15 respectively.
           Results: See Table 16. Infusion of 25% D-mannitol resulted in a marked increase
   in Evans blue uptake in the left hemisphere (633%) and some increased uptake in the
   right hemisphere (216%) and cerebellum (186%) compared to saline control. In normal
   rats and saline infused control rats a high level of imaging agent 1 accumulated in the
20 brain shortly after administration. PET imaging showed this high uptake of imaging
   agent 1 in saline control rats was only minimally increased in brain region following
   BBB disruption.
           Imaging agent 1 has a high BBB permeability that is only minimally increased
   following disruption and may be used for brain imaging.
25
                                             Table 16.
        Brain         right hemisphere            left hemisphere            cerebellum
       uptake        control      BBBD         control       BBBD       control       BBBD
     Evan blue
       (pg/g)         19±2         60±8          21±2        154±13      29±4         83±12
      imaging
       agent 1      0.72±0.0     0.81±0.0     0.72±0.0      0.93±0.0   0.78±0.0      0.95±0.0
      (%ID/g)           3            4             3            6          3             5

                                              - 145
                                           Example 32
            The following example is related to  18F labeled imaging agent 1 PET myocardial
   perfusion imaging detecting more severe and extensive stress induced myocardial
   ischemia than Tc-99m Sestamibi SPECT. In this study, rest-stress Tc-99m Sestamibi
 5 SPECT and imaging agent 1 PET MPI were compared for evaluation of stress induced
   myocardial perfusion abnormalities.
           Methods: Thirteen patients, from a single center, underwent rest-stress Tc-99m
   Sestamibi SPECT MPI, rest-stress imaging agent IPET MPI and coronary angiography. In
   each patient, 17 myocardial segments were visually scored for rest and stress images by
10 independent observers who were blinded to all other results. For each patient, summed
   stress scores (SSS), summed rest scores (SRS), and summed difference scores (SDS) were
   determined from segmental scores. Percent narrowing in each coronary artery was
   evaluated blindly and 70% luminal diameter narrowing was considered significant.
           Results: There were 15 diseased coronary arteries; 7 left anterior descending, 5 left
15 circumflex and 3 right coronary arteries. In myocardial segments that were supplied by
   diseased coronary arteries, SSS and SDS were significantly higher by PET than SPECT
   (Table 17).
            These data showed that as compared to Sestamibi SPECT, rest-stress     18F
   labeled imaging agent 1 PET MPI demonstrated more severe and extensive stress
20 induced perfusion abnormalities in myocardial regions that are supplied by diseased
   coronary arteries.
                                             Table 17.
                  imaging agent 1 PET       Tc-99m Sestamibi SPECT               P Value
      SSS               16.1±7.8                       8.6±5.8                    <0.001
      SDS                12.3±7                        5.4±4.2                    <0.05
      SRS                3.8±6.6                       3.1±3.3                      NS
25                                     Example 33
            The following example describes a comparison of myocardial stress perfusion
   defect assessment using   99mTc sestamibi SPECT versus imaging agent 1 PET.
   Myocardial uptake of imaging agent 1 exhibits a stronger relationship with myocardial
   blood flow across the range of achievable flow than 99mTc sestamibi. The assessment of
30 myocardial perfusion defects by imaging agent 1 PET and 99mTc sestamibi SPECT were

                                                - 146
   compared.
           Methods and Results: Twenty six patients (20 men) underwent SPECT and PET
   within 6- months. PET was performed with imaging agent 1 at rest (2.3-3.9 mCi)
   followed 60 min (n=18) or 24 h (n=8) later with exercise (n=16) or adenosine (n=10)
 5 stress (7.3-8.6 mCi). Image quality of SPECT and PET was consensually assessed by 2
   independent blinded readers and graded as excellent, good, or fair. Stress and rest
   perfusion defects on SPECT and PET were assessed by the same readers by computer
   assisted visual interpretation, using the standard 17 segment, 5 point-scoring model
   (O=normal; 4=absent uptake). The extent and severity of ischemia (summed difference
10 score (SDS)) was derived from the difference between summed stress (SSS) and summed
   rest scores (SRS). Image quality with PET was excellent in 24 and good in 2 patients.
   In contrast, there were 7 excellent, 18 good, and 1 fair quality study, p < 0.001 by SPECT.
   In 14 patients with abnormal SPECT (SSS > 4), mean SDS was greater with PET than
   with SPECT (9.6 ± 1.8 vs. 5.4 ± 0.7, p=0.02). In all 12 patients with normal SPECT (SSS
15 < 4), SDS was zero by PET and SPECT.
           Compared to    99mTc  sestamibi SPECT, imaging agent 1 PET provides better
   image quality and results in a significant increase in the SDS in patients with abnormal
   SPECT. These results showed that PET imaging with imaging agent 1 provided better
   assessment of the magnitude of myocardial ischemia than SPECT.
20
                                             Example 34
           The following describes cardiac phantom simulation of dose injection parameters
   for one-day rest/stress myocardial perfusion (MP1) PET imaging with imaging agent 1
   tracer. A 1-day rest/stress (RS) protocol for MPI with imaging agent 1 can create cross
25 contamination (CC) in the stress image. A phantom simulation was conducted to
   assess the impact of CC on image characteristics for a range of conditions.
           Methods: A F18 phantom with myocardium (M)=0.21 uCi/ml and liver (L)=0.22,
   simulating normal rest, was scanned on a Siemens Biograph-64 PET/CT for 30 min. It
   was washed and refilled with L=0.42, torso=0.09 and M=0.9 with a 40% defect in septal
30 wall, then scanned for another 30 min. SUV from 12 patients in a Phase II trial was used
   to assure realistic simulation. Registered RS images were blended to simulate CC for
   combinations of dose ratio (DR=1-5) and wait time (WT=30-120 min) between RS
   injections using blending coefficients determined by M-SUV, DR, rest dose decay and

                                              - 147
   WT. Each blended image set was measured for defect contrast (DC) using (SUVn
   SUVd)/SUV,, defect volume (DV) using pixel values >(SUVn+SUVd)/2             in defect, and
   wall uniformity (WU) using (SD/mean) in normal wall. Degradation <10% for DC, DV
   and WU was applied to determine the minimal WT for DR.
 5         Results: WU (<7.6%) and DV (<2%) for any type of stress were not significantly
   affected by any combination. DC degradation was reduced to the acceptable range by
   increasing DR, WT or both.
                                           Example 35
10         The following describes high definition cardiac perfusion PET using a new        18F
   imaging agent, imaging agent 1. HD'PET technology improves spatial resolution and
   signal-to-noise on reconstructed PET images (IEEE TMI 2006:25:7:907-921) but the
   thermal path of the positron emitted by rubidium limits its benefits in 8 2 Rb perfusion
   images. To evaluate its full potential for high-resolution cardiac imaging, HD'PET
15 with myocardial perfusion images obtained with a new     18F based agent (imaging agent
   1) was evaluated.
           Methods: Images of 15 subjects in a study of imaging agent 1 perfusion agent
   were acquired on a 4-ring Siemens Biograph-64. Static and 8-bin ECG-gated images
   were generated using standard reconstruction (SR - 2D Attenuation Weighted Ordered
20 Subsets Expectation Maximization) and HD'PET. The wall/cavity contrast and
   contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), and maximum to defect contrast were computed. Wall
   thickness at three different levels of heart (basal, mid, apical), wall motion, wall
   thickening and ejection fraction (EF) were also estimated with automatic
   quantification.
25         Results: HD'PET showed significant contrast change compared to SR
   (+32.3±17.9%, p<0.05). CNR also was improved with HD'PET (+26.7±22.3% vs.
   SR, p<0.05). The average contrast between the maximum in the myocardium and
   the 22 defects in the 15 patients was increased with HD'PET (4.0±1.7) compared to SR
   (3.2±1.2, p<0.05). The average wall thickness was 16:3±2.9mm, 16.7±2.9min and
30 15.6±2.2min (basal, mid, apical) with SR compared with 14.7±2.8mm, 14.1±3,0min
   and 13.0±1.7mm with HD'PET (p<0.05). EF, wall motion and wall thickening did not
   show any Significant differences with HD-PET.
           Conclusion: Perfusion studies with imaging agent 1 show significantly

                                              - 148
   improved image resolution, contrast and contrast-to-noise with HD'PET reconstruction
   as compared with the standard reconstruction technique.
                                            Example 36
 5          Using tracer kinetic modeling with imaging agent 1 PET, absolute quantification
   of myocardial blood flow (MBF) was shown to be feasible even at high flow rates. The
   study examined whether retention and SUV calculations were also suitable for the
   assessment of coronary flow reserve (CFR) in a pig model.
            Methods: Nine pigs were subjected to dynamic PET imaging of 100-200MBq
10 imaging agent 1 at rest and stress. MBF was evaluated using both imaging agent 1 PET
   3-compartmental modeling and the co-injected microspheres. Retention was calculated
   as uptake between 5-10 and 10-20min divided by the integral under the input function.
   Standard SUV calculation for the same time points was also used.
            Results: MBF ranged from 0.5-2.8 mL/min/g. Both retention and SUV showed
15 good correlation with both imaging agent 1 and microsphere MBF (5-10min: r--O.69,
   p<0.05 and 0.69, p<0.05 for retention, r=0.86, p<0.001 and 0.88, p<0.001 for SUV).
   Linear regression analysis revealed good results only for the earlier interval
   (y=8.27x+1.45 and 7.1 lx+3.63 for retention, 1.1 lx+0.01 and 0.99x+0.26 for SUV), but
   at later interval an underestimation was found. Calculation of stress/rest ratio for
20 retention and SUV allows assessment of CFR. The agreement between retention and
   SUV derived CFR and both imaging agent 1 and microspheres CFR, yielded modest
   mean differences in the early interval (0.1 and -0.05, for retention, 0.05 and -0.09 for
   SUV) and larger deviations in the late interval (-0.47 and -0.62 for retention, -0.4 and
   0.54 for SUV).
25          Using imaging agent 1 , a simplified kinetic analysis model for the assessment of
   MBF index and CFR was feasible. Furthermore, SUV derived values were suitable for
   tracer injection outside the imaging device and allowed for a physical stress test. These
   results provided a basis for a simplified quantitative approach in the routine clinical
   setting.
30
                                            Example 37
            The following example describes the synthesis of imaging agent precursor 1,
   according to the scheme shown in Figure 3.

                                               - 149
                                            Example 37A
            Synthesis of 2-(t-butyl)-4,5-dichloropyridazin-3(2H)-one (Compound 11)
            Solid t-butyl hydrazine hydrochloride (1 equiv) was added to a stirred solution of
 5 sodium hydroxide (0.95 equiv) dissolved in 10% water/toluene mixture (6 vol) at
   ambient temperature. The resulting white suspension was cooled slightly while
   mucochloric acid (1 equiv) was slowly added. After completion of the addition, the
   reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 20-30 minutes followed by
   dropwise addition of acetic acid (0.95 equiv). The reaction mixture was heated to 45
10 50 'C and stirred for 18 h, until starting material was consumed, as measured by HPLC.
   The reaction solution was allowed to cool to ambient temperature and then was diluted
   with water (~7 vol) and the organic layer separated. The organic layer was cooled to 0
   'C and washed with 30% NaOH (3.6 vol), followed by 35% HCl (3.6 vol) and water (2 x
   3.6 vol). The organic solution was concentrated under vacuum and restripped with
15 methanol (1.5 vol) to yield compound 11 as a brown solid that was dried under vacuum
   at 35 'C (65-750% yield, 100% purity by HPLC).
                                            Example 37B
    Synthesis of 2-(t-butyl)-4-chloro-5-((4-(hydroxymethyl)benzyl)oxy)pyridazin-3(2H)-one
20                                         (Compound 13)
            A solution of compound 11 (222 g) in dry dimethylformamide (780 mL) was
   slowly added to a stirred mixture of 1,4-phenylenedimethanol (compound 2, 690 g) and
   cesium carbonate (1.3 kg) in dry dimethylformamide (2.22L) heated to 65 'C. The
   resultant mixture was stirred at 65 'C for an additional 4 h, when the reaction was cooled
25 and filtered. The filtrate was diluted with 5% brine and extracted with toluene. The
   combined toluene extracts were washed twice with 5% brine and the organics
   concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude was crystallized from hot
   methanol/water mixture, filtered, washed with methanol/water and dried under vacuum
   at 40-45 'C to afford compound 3 (224 g) as an off-white powder in 69% yield,
30 contaminated with 6% of the product of dialkylation of compound 12 with compound 11.

                                               - 150
                                           Example 37C
    Synthesis of 5-((4-(bromomethyl)benzyl)oxy)-2-(t-butyl)-4-chloropyridazin-3(2H)-one
                                          (Compound 14)
           A dry vessel was charged with anhydrous dichloromethane (670 mL) and
 5 compound 13 (224 g). A 1.OM solution of phosphorous tribromide in dichloromethane
   (345 mL) was added to the mixture over 30 min at 25 'C and the solution stirred for
   another 30 min. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane (450 mL) and water
   (670 mL), the layers separated, and the aqueous phase extracted with dichloromethane
   (670 mL). The combined organic layers were washed twice with 5% brine, concentrated
10 under vacuum, and dried for 34 h under vacuum at 40 'C to yield compound 14 as an
   off-white solid (258 g, 96% yield).
                                           Example 37D
         Synthesis of 2-(t-butyl)-4-chloro-5-((4-((2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl)benzyl)oxy)
15                            pyridazin-3(2H)-one (Compound 15)
           Ethylene glycol (2.9 L) was charged into a dry vessel and treated with solid
   potassium t-butoxide (74 g). The suspension was heated to 60 'C to form a solution and
   then cooled to 20-25 'C. A solution of compound 14 (290 g) in dry THF (1.45 L) was
   added in one portion to the stirring ethylene glycoxide solution. The resultant mixture
20 was heated to 60 'C and stirred at this temperature for 16.5 h when it was then cooled to
   25 'C and diluted with water (2.9L) and toluene (4.35L). The organic layer was
   separated, washed three times with water and concentrated under vacuum. Another
   charge of toluene (4.35 L) was added and concentrated under vacuum again to afford
   crude compound 15 as a brown viscous oil (260 g, 95% yield)
25         Crude compound 15 (690 g) was dissolved in dichloromethane (0.5 kg/L) and
   purified by chromatography (silica column, 1:1 heptane/ethyl acetate, flow rate  = 6
   L/min, 1OL fractions). The combined fractions were combined and concentrated under
   vacuum to afford compound 15 as a clear, viscous oil (520 g, 7 0% yield).
30                                       Example 37D-1
           The following example describes the synthesis of compound 15, using an
   alternate synthetic method relative to Example 37D. Into a clean, dry reactor equipped
   with overhead stirrer and temperature probe was charged anhydrous ethylene glycol

                                              - 151
   (2900 mL), followed by potassium t-butoxide (42.2 g) at ambient temperature. The
   solution was heated to 55 to 60 'C to form a clear solution of the ethylene glycoxide and
   then cooled to 20 'C to 30 'C under an inert atmosphere. This solution was assayed for
   total base content. A separate vessel was charged with anhydrous tetrahydrofuran (725
 5 mL) and compound 14 (145 g) with stirring to form a solution at ambient temperature.
   This solution was added in a single portion directly to the ethylene glycoxide solution at
   20 to 30 'C.   The mixture was heated to 60 'C and stirred at this temperature. When the
   reaction was complete, it was cooled to 20 'C and toluene (2200 mL) and water (2200
   mL) were added with stirring to form two layers when allowed to settle. The layers were
10 separated and the organic layer washed with 2200 mL each of sodium bicarbonate
   solution and water (twice). The organic layer was concentrated at <50 'C under vacuum
   to give compound 15 as a viscous oil (133.4 g, 91% when corrected for residual toluene).
                                           Example 37E
15                           Synthesis of Constrast Agent Precursor 1
           A dry reactor was charged sequentially with dichloromethane (6.6 L), compound
   15 (510 g) dissolved in dichloromethane (1.1L), triethylamine (0.25 L), p
   toluenesulfonyl chloride (305 g), and dimethylaminopyridine (7 g). The solution was
   stirred at ambient temperature for 28 h when it was washed with 1.0 M HCl (2x 10 L),
20 water (10 L), 50%sodium bicarbonate (2 x 10 L), and water (10 L). The organic solution
   was filtered and dichloromethane removed under reduced pressure to afford imaging
   agent precursor 1 as a thick oil.
           Crude imaging agent precursor 1 (21.5 g) was added to cumene (125 mL) and
   heated to 60 'C to dissolve the solids. It was cooled to 40 'C and 1% w/w imaging agent
25 precursor 1 crystals added to seed the crystallization. The solution was held for 3 h at 35
   'C to allow crystallization, and then cooled to ambient temperature and stirred for 6 h to
   complete crystallization. The solids were filtered, dried briefly under vacuum, and then
   added to isobutyl acetate (125 mL). After heating to 70 'C, the solids dissolved, and the
   solution was then cooled to 40-50 'C and seeded with 1% w/w imaging agent precursor
30 1. After holding at 40-50 'C for five hours, the slurry was cooled to ambient temperature
   over 2 hours and held for 12 h. The resulting solids were filtered, rinsed with cold
   isobutyl acetate, and dried under vacuum to afford 12.8 g of imaging agent precursor 1
   (60% from compound 15).

                                                - 152
            In some cases, the triethylamine stoichiometry was increased from about 1.15 to
   about 1.40 equiv. In some cases, the p-toluenesulfonyl chloride stoichiometry was
   increased from about 1.15 to about 1.20 equiv. In some cases, the
   dimethylaminopyridine stoichiometry was increased from about 0.04 to about 0.10
 5 equiv.
            In some embodiments, the cumene crystallization wass completed under the
   following conditions: Dilution: 10.0 volumes; Seeding temperature: 45 'C;
   Crystallization hold time at seeding temperature: 3 h; Cooling rate: 5 'C/h; Granulation
   temperature: 20 'C; Granulation time: >3 h; Filtration temperature: 20 'C.
10          In other embodiments, the cumene crystallization was completed under the
   following conditions: Dilution: 6.5 volumes; Seeding temperature: 50 'C; Crystallization
   hold time at seeding temperature: 6 h; Cooling rate: 10 'C/h; Granulation temperature:
   10 'C; Granulation time: >8 h; Filtration temperature: 10 'C.
            In a certain embodiment, compound 16 (20.0 g) was suspended in cumene (6.5
15 volumes) then warmed to 68 'C. The resulting solution was cooled to 50 'C then seeded
   with compound 16; slow formation of a precipitate was observed. The resulting
   suspension was held at 50 'C for 6 h then cooled at 10 'C/h to 10 'C, maintained 12 h,
   filtered and washed. Following in vacuo drying at 60 'C, 16.4 g of compound 6 was
   obtained (82% recovery; 96% solvent and purity adjusted).
20          In some embodiments, the isobutyl actetate crystallization was conducted under
   the following conditions: Dilution: 8 volumes; Seeding temperature: 50 'C;
   Crystallization hold time at seeding temperature: 3 h; Cooling rate: 5 'C per hour;
   Granulation temperature: 20 'C; Granulation time: >10 h; Filtration temperature: 20 'C.
            In other embodiments, the isobutyl actetate crystallization was conducted under
25 the following conditions: Dilution: 5 volumes; Seeding temperature: 48 'C;
   Crystallization hold time at seeding temperature: 10 h; Cooling rate: 2.5 0 C/h;
   Granulation time: 0 h; Filtration temperature: 10 'C.
            In a certain embodiment, cumene crystallized compound 16 (15.40 g) was
   suspended in isobutyl acetate (5 volumes) then warmed to 68 'C. The resulting solution
30 was cooled to 48 'C then seeded with BMS-747155-01 (0.l1% w/w); immediate
   formation of a precipitate was observed. The resulting suspension was held at 48 'C for
   10 h then cooled at 2.5 0 C/h to 10 C, filtered and washed. Following in vacuo drying at

                                               - 153
   60 C, 13.10 g of compound 16 was obtained (85% recovery) which passed all
   specifications.
                                            Example 38
           The following example describes an alternate route to synthesizing 2-(t-butyl)-4
 5 chloro-5-((4-(hydroxymethyl)benzyl)oxy) pyridazin-3(2H)-one (compound 13), as
   shown in Figure 4.
                                           Example 38A
        Synthesis of 2-(t-butyl)-4-chloro-5-hydroxypyridazin-3(2H)-one (Compound 17)
10         A dry vessel was sequentially charged while stirring with compound 11 (1 00g),
   potassium hydroxide (76.1 g), and ethylene glycol (1 L). The resulting suspension was
   heated to 115 'C and stirred at this temperature for 5 hrs. The brown solution was
   cooled to 0 'C and 1 M hydrochloric acid solution (1 L) added slowly with stirring over
   60 minutes, keeping the temperature below 25 'C during the addition, resulting in
15 precipitation of a light brown solid. The slurry was stirred for 2 hrs and filtered, washing
   the cake with cold water (4 x 500 mL) and ethanol (100 mL). The Crude compound 17
   thus obtained was then recrystallized from hot ethanol (1 L), filtered, and dried under
   vacuum for 34 h at 45 'C to yield pure compound 17 (68.3 g, 75% yield).
20                                         Example 38B
          Synthesis of methyl 4-(((1-(t-butyl)-5-chloro-6-oxo-1,6-dihydropyridazin-4
                              yl)oxy)methyl)benzoate (Compound 18)
           A dry vessel under nitrogen atmosphere was charged sequentially with compound
   17 (66 g), dimethylformamide (660 mL) and potassium carbonate (45 g). To this was
25 added methyl 4-(bromomethyl)benzoate (78 g) and the resulting suspension stirred for 18
   h at 20 'C. Water (700 mL) was added over 30 minutes to precipitate the product and
   dissolve remaining salts. The slurry was stirred for 1.5 h and the resulting solids filtered,
   washed with water (4 x 300 mL) and cyclohexane (2 x 150 mL) and dried under vacuum
   at 45 'C to afford compound 18 (112.8 g, 99%) as a white powder.
30
                                           Example 38C
    Alternate synthesis of 2-(t-butyl)-4-chloro-5-((4-(hydroxymethyl)benzyl)oxy) pyridazin
                                     3(2H)-one (Compound 13)

                                             - 154
           A dry vessel with overhead agitation under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen was
   charged sequentially with 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (500 mL) and compound 18 (50 g) at
   ambient temperature. The resulting suspension was cooled to -7 'C and a solution of
   diisobutylaluminum hydride in toluene (1.5M, 119 mL) added drop-wise over 1 h
 5 keeping the temperature below 3 'C. After stirring for 1.5 h at -5 'C - 0 'C, the reaction
   was quenched by addition of propan-2-ol (50 mL) at a rate to keep the temperature below
   4 'C. The quenched reaction mixture was then added dropwise to a solution of
   hydrochloric acid (2M, 500 mL) over 75 min, keeping the temperature below 7 'C. The
   biphasic solution was warmed to 22 'C and the layers separated. The organic layer was
10 then washed with 500 mL each of 2M hydrochloric acid, saturated sodium bicarbonate
   solution and water and then concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude
   compound 13 as an off-white solid (42.4 g). This was recrystallized from hot isopropyl
   acetate (200 mL), seeding the solution at 65 'C and holding at this temperature for one h,
   followed by cooling to 0 'C over 4 h. The resulting white solid was filtered and dried
15 under vacuum at 45 'C to afford compound 13 (35 g, 76% yield).
           In some cases, the above experiment was performed with both lithium aluminum
   hydride and sodium bis(2-methoxyethyoxy)aluminum hydride (Red Al) as well as
   diisobutylaluminum hydride (DIBAL-H). In some cases, solutions of DIBAL-H in
   dichloromethane, toluene, and hexane were employed.      In some cases, selection of 2
20 MeTHF (vs. THF) as co-solvent was performed due to its reduced aqueous solubility. In
   some cases, stress studies revealed the DIBAL reduction performed well, in particular, at
   temperatures between -15 to +10 'C. In some cases, the DIBAL-H was charged in two
   portions; 2.20 equiv followed by additional reagent if incomplete reaction was observed.
   In some cases, residual water was found to have hydrolyzed DIBAL-H and the impurity
25 profile remained unchanged.
           In some embodiments, the reaction was conducted under the following
   conditions: -15 to +10 'C; up to ~2.35 equiv DIBAL-H; up to 5% H2 0 (w/w) in
   precursor; <0.75% precursor remaining at full conversion.
30                                         Example 39
           The following example described an alternate synthetic route to 2-(t-butyl)-4
   chloro-5-((4-((2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl) benzyl)oxy) pyridazin-3(2H)-one (Compound
   15), as shown in Figure 5.

                                                - 155
                                            Example 39A
              Preparation of methyl 4-(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl)benzoate (compound 19)
           Methyl 4-formylbenzoate (3.28 g, 20.0 mmol) was suspended in ethylene glycol
 5 (4.46 mL, 80.0 mmol), then successively treated with triethyl orthoformate (3.66 mL,
   22.0 mmol) and Me 3NPhBr 3 (376 mg, 1.00 mmol) at 22 'C; within 5 min, all solids
   dissolved. The resulting orange solution was stirred 0.5 h, then diluted with saturated
   aqueous NaHCO 3 (50 mL), transferred to separatory funnel and washed with EtOAc (3 x
   50 mL). The combined EtOAc washes were dried over MgSO 4 , filtered and
10 concentrated in vacuo to a colorless oil (Rf 0.4 in 4:1 pentane/EtOAc, KMnO 4). This
   material was used without further purification in the subsequent reduction step.
                                            Example 39B
             Preparation of (4-(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl)phenyl)methanol (Compound 20)
15         The crude acetal (20.0 mmol theoretical) was dissolved in dry THF (100.0 mL),
   cooled to 0 'C and treated with LiAlH 4 (20.00 mmol; 20.00 mL of a 1.0 M solution in
   THF) at a rate of 1.0 mL/min using a syringe pump. Upon completion of the addition,
   excess LiAlH 4 was consumed by the careful addition of H 2 0 (800 tL). CAUTION:
   vigorous gas evolution! The resulting white suspension was successively treated with
20 15% aqueous NaOH (800 pL) and H2 0 (2.40 mL), then stirred 0.5 h to a fine white
   slurry. The solids were removed by filtration through a pad of Celite then exhaustively
   washed with Et 2 0. The combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo to a colorless oil
   and purified by chromatography on silica (50 x 175 mm) using 1:1 pentane/EtOAc. The
   main product peak eluting 470-790 mL was collected, pooled and concentrated in vacuo
25 to a colorless oil, which solidified in the freezer (2.46 g, 13.7 mmol; 68.3% over two
   steps).
                                            Example 39C
              Synthesis of (4-(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl)phenyl)methanol (Compound 20)
30         Methyl 4-formylbenzoate (4.92 g, 30.0 mmol) was dissolved in dry toluene (50.0
   mL), successively treated with ethylene glycol (1.84 mL, 33.0 mmol) and p-TsOH-H 20
   (57.1 mg, 0.30 mmol), then heated to reflux under Dean-Stark conditions; acetal
   formation was complete within 1 h. The solution was then cooled to 22 'C and treated

                                                - 156
   with sodium bis(2-methoxyethoxy)aluminum hydride (45.0 mmol; 12.7 mL of a 70.3 wt.
   % solution in toluene) at a rate of 0.5 mL/min using a syringe pump. CAUTION:
   vigorous gas evolution! Upon completion of the addition, the resulting solution was
   further cooled to 0 'C, carefully treated with a saturated aqueous solution of K,Na
 5 tartrate (100 ml), then vigorously stirred 1 h; steady formation of a clear solution was
   observed. The resulting biphase was then diluted with EtOAc (50 mL), with transfer to a
   conical funnel, and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was then washed with
   EtOAc (3 x 50 mL) and the combined EtOAc and toluene solutions dried over MgSO 4 ,
   filtered and concentrated in vacuo to a colorless oil. The crude product was then purified
10 by chromatography on silica (50 x 135 mm) using 1:1 pentane/EtOAc. The main
   product peak eluting 425-725 mL was collected, pooled and concentrated in vacuo to a
   colorless oil, which solidified in the freezer (4.50 g, 83.2% over two steps).
                                            Example 39D
15        Synthesis of 2-(t-butyl)-4-chloro-5-[(4-(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl)phenyl)methoxy]-2
                               hydropyridazin-3-one (Compound 21)
            A solution of 2-(t-butyl)-4,5 -dichloro-2-hydropyridazin-3 -one (829 mg, 3.75
   mmol) and the compound 10 (451 mg, 2.50 mmol) in dry DMF (12.5 mL) was treated
   with Cs 2 CO 3 (1.63 g, 5.00 mmol) in one portion at 22 'C. The resulting suspension was
20 then immersed in a pre-heated oil bath (65 'C) and maintained 6 h with vigorous stirring.
   After cooling to ambient temperature, the suspension was partitioned between EtOAc
   and H 2 0 (50 mL each), with transfer to a conical funnel, and the layers separated. The
   remaining aqueous layer was washed with additional EtOAc (3 x 50 mL) then discarded.
   The combined EtOAc solutions were further washed with saturated aqueous NaCl (5 x
25 50 mL), then dried over MgSO 4 , filtered and concentrated in vacuo to an off-white solid.
   In some cases, trituration with several small volumes of pentane was performed to
   generate the solid. The crude product was then recrystallized from hot EtOAc/hexanes to
   afford colorless needles that were collected on a scintered glass funnel of medium
   porosity, exhaustively washed with pentane and dried in vacuo (573 mg, 62.8%).
30
                                            Example 39E
          Synthesis of 2-(t-butyl)-4-chloro-5-[(4-(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl)phenyl)methoxy]-2
                               hydropyridazin-3-one (Compound 21)

                                               - 157
           To a vessel charged with (4-(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl)phenyl)methanol (20 g, 110
   mmol), benzyltriethylammonium chloride (2.27 g, 10 mmol), toluene (100 mL) and
   sodium hydroxide (50% in water, 22 mL, 420 mmol) was added a solution of 2-(t-butyl)
   4,5-dichloro-2-hydropyridazin-3-one (22.1 g, 100 mmol) in toluene (100 mL) over 5
 5 min. A gradual and accelerating exotherm occurred with the final internal temperature
   reaching 39 'C. After 2.5 h stirring was halted and MTBE (50 mL) and water (100 mL)
   added. The phases were split and the organic layer was washed with water (100 mL) and
   brine (100 mL). The organic extracts were dried (MgSO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated
   under vacuum to afford a tan solid (39 g). The solids were slurried in toluene/heptane
10 (430 mL, 1:1) at 40 'C for 2 h, cooled to ambient temperature, filtered and dried under
   vacuum at 40 'C for 24 h (29.7 g, 69%).
                                           Example 39F
    Synthesis of 2-(t-butyl)-4-chloro-5-({4-[(2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl]phenyl}methoxy)-2
15                            hydropyridazin-3-one (Compound 15)
           A solution of compound 21 (365 mg, 1.00 mmol) in dry CH 2 Cl 2 (10.0 mL) was
   cooled to -40 'C using a dry ice/MeCN bath, then treated with DIBAL-H (4.00 mmol;
   4.00 mL of a 1.0 M solution in CH 2 Cl 2 ) at a rate of 0.25 mL/min using a syringe pump.
   The solution was maintained 1 h with periodic addition of dry ice to the cooling bath,
20 then carefully treated with wet MeOH (1 mL) and warmed to 22 'C. The resulting
   solution was diluted with EtOAc (20 mL), treated with an equal volume of saturated
   aqueous K,Na-tartrate, then vigorously stirred 1 h; steady formation of a clear solution
   should be observed. The resulting biphase was further diluted with H2 0 (50 mL), with
   transfer to a conical funnel, and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was then
25 washed with EtOAc (3 x 50 mL) and discarded. The combined EtOAc washes were
   dried over MgSO 4 , filtered and concentrated in vacuo to a colorless oil (Rf 0.2 in 1:1
   pentane/EtOAc, KMnO 4). The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica
   (30 x 190 mm) using a step gradient from 1:1 pentane/EtOAc (250 mL) to 3:2
   pentane/EtOAc (500 mL). The main product eluting between 415-580 mL was
30 collected, pooled and concentrated in vacuo to a colorless oil (286 mg, 0.780 mmol;
   78.0%).

                                                 - 158
                                             Example 40
             Synthesis of 2-((4-(((1-(t-butyl)-5-chloro-6-oxo-1,6-dihydropyridazin-4
    yl)oxy)methyl)benzyl)oxy)ethyl 4-methylbenzenesulfonate (imaging agent precursor 1)
            A dry reactor was charged sequentially with dichloromethane (6.6 L), compound
 5 15 (510 g) dissolved in dichloromethane (1.1L), triethylamine (0.25 L), p
   toluenesulfonyl chloride (305 g), and dimethylaminopyridine (7 g). The solution was
   stirred at ambient temperature for 28 h when it was washed with 1.0M HCl (2x 10 L),
   water (10 L), 50% sodium bicarbonate (2 x 10 L), and water (10 L). The organic solution
   was filtered and dichloromethane exchanged for ethyl acetate. The product was
10 crystallized from hot 1:1 heptane/ethyl acetate (~I 1 L). by slowly cooling to 0-5 'C. The
   resulting solids were filtered, washed with cold ethyl acetate/heptane and dried under
   vacuum at 40 'C for 42 h to yield imaging agent precursor 1(555 g, 77% yield).
                                             Example 41
15          The following describes remote camera qualification (RCQ) of PET and PET/CT
   scanners for imaging agent 1 myocardial perfusion using a standardized phantom
   procedure.
            As will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art, in a medical imaging
   clinical trial, camera qualification is a critical step in assessing whether individual
20 clinical site (CS) possesses the capability to execute the protocol. In some cases, a
   challenge lies in how to standardize a task-specific phantom and the associated
   qualification procedure that can effectively determine if specific site scanners meet the
   study requirement to join the trial.
           Methods. Using various cameras, the RCQ procedure with an imaging manual
25 customized for each scanner model utilized step-by-step instruction for CS to follow.
   A low-cost, standardized phantom using a 2 liter soda bottle with an acrylic rod
   (L=21cm, D=2cm) sealed inside the cap was provided to each CS (see Example 42 for
   more details). CS injected 3-4 mCi F18 solution to the water-filled phantom to acquire
   image data and to test existing cardiac misregistration (MR) correction software in each
30 system. The RCQ procedure was performed by the CS with telephone support as
   necessary. All image data was sent to the imaging core laboratory to analyze in terms of
   quantitative imaging parameters. Minimum performance criteria were established to

                                                  - 159
      identify cameras whose performance was inconsistent with accepted norms. The results
      are shown in Table 18.
                                                Table 18.
                    Consisten     Consisten      Noise        Image      Spatial      Image      Accuracy
                       cy of        cy of      Variation     Contras   Resolutio    Uniformi         of
                    Dynamic        Gated        of Gated         t          n           ty        Calibrati
                       Acq.         Acq.          Acq.                   (mm)                    on Factor
    Dedicated        93.36%±      98.25%±       19.94%±       0.91±      8.36±       2.58%±      64.62%±
        PET           2.72%        1.88%         6.18%         0.04       1.40        0.86%       20.00%
     (no MR)
     PET/CT          93.57%±      98.24%±       14.30%±       0.97±      6.77±       2.58%±      93.66%±
     (no MR)          3.96%        0.66%         5.41%         0.03       1.20        0.46%        3.84%
     PET/CT          93.70%±      98.05%±       16.02%±       0.95±      7.42±       3.18%±      94.37%±
        (MR           3.60%        0.91%         4.44%         0.03       0.75        0.56%        2.87%
   correction )
     Minimal          >85%         >85%          <25%          >0.9     <10 mm         <5%         >90%
   requirement
 5             Conclusions. Remote camera qualification when integrated with a      standardized
      phantom, comprehensive imaging manuals, full technical support and centralized data
      analysis can be a cost-effective and efficient method to assess the performance of PET
      and PET/CT scanners in a large clinical trial.
10                                             Example 42
               The following example describes a low cost refillable phantom for
      standardization of PET Scanners
               Standardization and harmonization of imaging methodology and scanner
      performance is critical to the success of clinical studies using PET (e.g., as described in
15    Example 41). Generally, this may be accomplished with a test object called a phantom
      that is loaded with an appropriate quantity of radioactive material and imaged in the
      same way with each scanner. Phantoms may be constructed either of solid materials
      with long-lived positron-emitters embedded or they may be filled with water and short
      lived radioactivity added as needed. Differences in observed imaging performance allow
20    adjustment of methods or repair of equipment as necessary to assure uniformity of image
      quality among all systems used. Conventional phantoms, both solid and refillable are
      sufficiently expensive that the cost of simultaneous assessment at a large number of sites
      is prohibitive. The device described in this example is a simple task-specific phantom
      for cardiac PET using readily available materials that can be constructed for

                                                 - 160
   approximately 1% the price of a conventional refillable phantom. When combined with
   routine quality control, it allows the simultaneous characterization of a large number of
   PET and PET-CT systems for standardization in PET cardiac clinical trials.
           Materialsand Methods. The phantom was constructed from a standard 2-liter
 5 soda bottle. A rod of acrylic plastic 8% inches long and 3/4 inches in diameter was
   centered and fixed to the inside of the cap of the bottle using an external screw. The
   surface between the end of the rod and the inside of the cap and under the screw head
   was sealed with glue appropriate to the materials prior to final tightening of the screw
   and the phantom tested for leakage.
10         The phantom was filled in the following way:
       1. The phantom was placed on an absorbent surface or, preferably, in a sink and
           filled the phantom with tap water to the top. Bubbles were minimized using a
           slow rate of water flow into the bottle.
       2. The acrylic rod (attached to the cap) was inserted into the soda bottle fully and
15         the cap screwed in place. The entire overflow was allowed to be removed from
           the phantom. It was important not to squeeze the phantom while doing this. The
           cap was unscrewed and the rod slowly removed to allow any water clinging to it
           to drain back into the phantom.
       3.  A clean syringe was used to draw 2 ml of water from the phantom.
20         Approximately 10 drops of liquid soap was added into the phantom to prevent
           FDG or other F 18 compounds from sticking to the inner surface of bottle or the
           rod. The phantom was shaken by tilting it up and down vertically for at least 30
           sec to ensure uniform distribution of liquid soap.
       4.  18F activity (3-4 mCi) and the volume (several ml) in a syringe was measured and
25         then recorded, including volume and assay time.
       5.  18F  was injected into the phantom slowly and the syringe drawn back and forth to
           flush the remaining activity from the syringe vigorously three times.
       6. The same syringe was used to carefully draw out a volume of liquid from the
                                                            18
           phantom equal to the volume plus 1 ml of the       F solution injected into it. This
30         ensured the solution will not overflow when the rod is replaced and will include a
           small bubble to facilitate mixing.
       7. The    1 8Factivity in the syringe was measured and the radioactivity and assay time
           was recorded.

                                               - 161
       8.  The rod was reinserted into the phantom and the cap was hand-tightened in place
           and ensured that it was secure and leak-free.
       9. The surface of the phantom was wiped with a paper towel which was checked for
           radioactive contamination prior to discarding.
 5     10. Image data was then acquired using any PET scanner that was to be evaluated,
           under any conditions or acquisition settings that are to be evaluated.
           The resulting image data were assessed using conventional tools. A large region
       of interest covering the central 60% of several slices that do not include the acrylic
       rod may be used to determine the degree of uniformity and correctness of calibration
10     factors. Region-of-interest analysis with one or more slices containing the acrylic rod
       may also be used to determine the contrast between the radioactivity-filled volume
       and the area within the acrylic rod from which radioactivity is excluded. Integration
       of a line profile including the edge between the rod and the liquid may be used to
       assess resolution. A variety of other factors may also be assessed, including
15     calibration linearity and the capacity and accuracy of PET-CT mismatch correction
       using appropriate data acquisition.
                                            Example 43
           The following example describes a comparison of imaging agent 1 and 18F
20 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) for assessment of left ventricular viability following
   myocardial infarction in rats.
            18
               F fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) imaging of the heart is used to assess myocardial
   viability. This example describes a comparision of the volume of viable tissue in the left
   ventricle of normal and myocardial infarcted (MI) rats determined by imaging agent 1
25 imaging with that detected by FDG imaging.
           Methods. MI was induced in rats by 30 minutes of\ coronary occlusion followed
   reperfusion. Imaging agent 1 (1 mCi) and FDG (1 mCi) cardiac imaging in 2 days apart
   was performed in rats of before, two days (early MI) and four weeks (late MI) post
   surgery. A regimen of glucose and insulin was injected before FDG imaging to ensure
30 high cardiac uptake. Viable left ventricle was quantified in images as the volume with
   >50% of maximum activity.
           Results. In control rats, cardiac imaging with both imaging agent 1 and FDG
   showed well-defined left ventricular wall and the left ventricular volume was measured

                                               - 162
   as 1.17±0.04 and 1.11±0.07 cm3 respectively before surgery. In early and late stage MI
   rats, the myocardial defect area was clearly identified by imaging with both agents. The
   viable left ventricular tissue volume measured with imaging agent 1 was slightly larger
   than the viable tissue area measured with FDG (0.94±0.01 vs. 0.75±0.04and 1.18±0.04
 5 vs. 0.99±0.09 cm3 at early and late stage MI). In addition, imaging agent 1 imaging
   showed similar detectable left ventricular areas at 20 and 80 minutes post injection (no
   refill-in) in both early and late stage MI. This example shows that imaging agent 1 has
   the potential to be used to assess myocardial viability, like FDG, however without the
   need for insulin pre-treatment.
10
                                            Example 44
            The following demonstrates that a quantitative and perceived defect severity are
   proportional with imaging agent 1 PET myocardial perfusion imaging.
            In order to identify the minimum rest dose of imaging agent 1, a comparison was
15 made between the count-related variation in normal myocardium and the minimum
   change in defect severity that would result in 50% probability of a reader's changing a
   segmental score by 1. In order to determine this limiting change in defect severity, a
   comparison was made between reader scores from a blinded read and the corresponding
   quantitative defect severity.
20          Method. Patients selected for one or more at least partially reversible defects on
   SPECT studies were evaluated as part the first cohort in the Phase 2 study of imaging
   agent 1. Rest and stress images were read by a panel of three blinded readers. Reader'
   scores using a 17-segment model from the rest image data only derived from the first 20
   patients were compared with the percentage decreases from the maximum value in each
25 image as calculated by standard cardiac MPI analysis software (Cedars QPS). The
   values were plotted and a linear regression calculated for the data from each reader (see
   Figure 13).
            Results. Although there was significant range in quantitative severity values at
   each reader score value (%SD ~20% of image maximum), the data was well modeled
30 with the simple linear regression resulting in R 2 values of 1.00, 0.978 and 0.984 for
   readers 1, 2 and 3 respectively. The intercept values were 84.18%, 82.33% and 84.96%
   respectively while the slopes were -13.8, -9.86 and -8.53 respectively.
            Discussion. These results suggest that, at least with imaging agent 1, it may be

                                               - 163
   possible to estimate reader responses using a simple linear relationship and the
   quantitative fraction of the maximum value without the need for a normal database.
   Based on a mean slope of -10.7, it was estimated that a 50% probability of a change of 1
   in reader score corresponded to a change in quantitative severity by 5.4%
 5
                                            Example 45
            The following examples describes a comparison of imaging agent 1 and Tc-99m
   labeled SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging for identifying severity and extent of
   stress induced myocardial ischemia in Phase 2 clinical trials
10          In this multi-center Phase 2 study, imaging agent 1 and Tc-99m labeled SPECT
   rest-stress MPI were compared for evaluation of stress induced myocardial perfusion
   abnormalities in patients (Pts) with coronary artery disease (CAD).
            Methods: 84 Pts from 21 centers, presenting with an intermediate to high CAD
   pre-test likelihood, underwent rest-stress Tc-99m labeled SPECT MPI, imaging agent 1
15 PET MPI and coronary angiography. Their mean age was 64.5 years (range: 36-85) and
   68 were males. In each patient, 17 myocardial segments were visually scored on rest and
   stress images by 3 independent, blinded readers. For each pt, summed difference scores
   (SDS) were determined from segmental scores. Percent narrowing in each coronary
   artery was quantitatively and blindly determined and >50% luminal diameter narrowing
20 was considered significant. Of the 84 Pts, 52 had CAD and 32 had insignificant
   CAD/normal coronary arteries.
            Results. There were 105 diseased coronary arteries in 52 patients; 40 left anterior
   descending, 30 left circumflex and 35 right coronary arteries. In patients with at least
   one diseased artery, the mean (SD) PET SDS score ranged among the three readers from
25 6.8 (5.75) to 9.4 (7.51) and the mean (SD) SPECT SDS score ranged from 4.1 (4.75) to
   5.7 (6.51). The differences in SDS scores between PET and SPECT were statistically
   significant in all readers (p<0.01). In 52 patients with multivessel disease and multi
   readers, the adjusted mean PET SDS score was significantly higher than that of SPECT
   SDS score (p<0.001).
30          Conclusions. These data suggest that as compared to Tc-99m SPECT, rest-stress
   imaging agent 1 PET MPI demonstrates more severe and extensive stress induced
   perfusion abnormalities in myocardial regions that are supplied by diseased coronary
   arteries.

                                                - 164
                                             Example 46
            The following example describes a Phase 2 clinical comparison of imaging agent
   1 injection PET and Tc-99m labeled SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging for diagnosis
 5 of coronary artery disease.
            In the Phase 2 study, the clinical safety of imaging agent 1 injection was
   evaluated and its diagnostic performance for detection of coronary artery disease (CAD)
   was compared to rest-stress Tc-99m labeled SPECT MPI.
           Methods. 143 patients (Pts) from 21 centers, presenting with a broad spectrum of
10 CAD pre-test likelihoods, underwent rest-stress Tc-99m labeled SPECT MPI and
   imaging agent 1 PET MPI. 84/143 who had an intermediate to high CAD likelihood
   underwent coronary angiography. Their mean age was 64.5 (range: 36-85) years and 68
   were males. % narrowing in each coronary artery was quantified blindly. 52/84 Pts had
   significant CAD (>50% luminal diameter narrowing) and 32/84 had insignificant
15 CAD/normal coronary arteries. In each patient, 17 myocardial segments were visually
   scored on rest and stress images by 3 independent, blinded readers and majority rule
   interpretation was determined in each patient for both PET and SPECT studies.
   Diagnostic performance of PET was compared to that of SPECT using ROC analysis.
           Results. A significantly higher % of images were rated as either excellent or
20 good on PET vs SPECT stress images (99.2% vs. 88.8%, p<0.01) and rest images
   (96.8% vs. 64.8%, p<0.01). Diagnostic certainty of interpretation (% of cases with
   definitely abnormal/normal interpretation) was significantly higher for PET vs. SPECT
   (92.0% vs. 76.8%, P<0.01). The area under the ROC curve for overall diagnosis of CAD
   was significantly higher for PET vs. SPECT (0.79+0.05 vs. 0.67+0.05, p<0.05). 61/143
25 patients reported 100 treatment emergent adverse events (AEs). Of these, 7 AEs
   reported in 2 patients were judged to be related to the study drag, but none were serious.
   No clinical laboratory changes from baseline were reported as TEAEs or considered as
   clinically significant. The ECG data at rest revealed no evidence of any clinically
   relevant effect on heart rate, atrio-ventricular conduction (PR interval), depolarization
30 (QRS duration) or repolarization (QTcF duration).
            Conclusions. Within this Phase 2 clinical trial imaging agent 1 appeared to be
   safe and superior to Tc-99m labeled SPECT with respect to image quality, certainty of
   image interpretation and overall diagnosis of CAD.

                                               - 165
                                            Example 47
            The following described a streamlined quantification of absolute myocardial
   blood flow at rest and stress with imaging agent 1 injection PET in normal subjects and
 5 patients with coronary artery disease.
            Objectives. The feasibility of streamlined quantification of rest (R) and stress (S)
   myocardial blood flows (MBFs) and coronary flow reserve (CFR) with imaging agent 1
   for clinical use in normal subjects and coronary artery disease (CAD) patients (Pts) was
   evaluated.
10          Methods. Ten Pts [6 with a low likelihood of CAD and 4 with CAD (>50%
   stenosis) and reversible defects] received imaging agent 1 injection at Rand at peak
   adenosine S followed by 10-min dynamic acquisition. The R-S imaging protocol was
   same-day in 5 Pts and separate-day in 5 Pts. Rand S polar maps were automatically
   generated from summed dynamic scans ( 0.5-2 min post injection) and the 3 coronary
15 territories (LAD, RCA, LCX) and the left ventricular blood pool (LV) were defined
   automatically. Reversible defects were manually assigned on the polar maps, from
   which time activity curves (TACs) were generated. A single-compartment model that
   included an irreversible uptake constant (K) and a spillover from blood pool activity was
   used to fit the tissue TACs at early times (0-2 min). LV TAC was used as the input
20 function. Recovery coefficient due to partial volume effect of myocardium was estimated
   as (1-spf), with spf denoting the blood spillover fraction determined from model fitting.
   The first pass extraction fraction for imaging agent 1 in humans was assumed to be 0.94
   equivalent to that observed in pre-clinical studies. CFR was calculated as S/R MBF.
            Results. MBF and CFR were compared between 18 normal territories ( in 6 low
25 likelihood Pts) and 5 reversible defect territories which were supplied by CAD
   coronaries (Table 19 , *=p<0.05). The results are in agreement with the published
   literature using N-13 ammonia PET.

                                               - 166
                                             Table 19.
                                              Normal                                CAD
                             LAD               RCA                LCX             Reversible
                                                                                    defect
   RMBF                0.76+0.15         0.75+0.17         0.74+0.10           0.69+0.22
   SMBF                2.48+0.50         2.78+0.43         2.66+0.62           1/12+0.19*
   CFR                 3.25+0.25         3.72+0.49         3.60+0.86           1.71+0.41*
            Conclusions. Quantification of MBF using imaging agent 1 injection PET
   myocardial perfusion imaging can be streamlined in clinical applications to give robust
 5 MBF results.
                                            Example 48
     Synthesis of 5-((4-((2-bromoethoxy)methyl)benzyl)oxy)-2-(t-butyl)-4-chloropyridazin
                                             3(2H)-one
10          A solution of imaging agent precursor 1 (0.521 g, 1.00 mmol) in dry acetone
   (10.0 mL) was treated with LiBr (0.261 g, 3.00 mmol) in one portion at 22 'C then
   warmed to 56 'C and maintained 2.5 h. The now heterogeneous reaction mixture was
   cooled to ambient temperature and all volatiles removed in vacuo. The crude product
   was then purified by chromatography on silica (30 x 190 mm) using 3:1 pentane/EtOAc.
15 The main product peak eluting 180-360 mL was collected, pooled and concentrated in
   vacuo to a colorless oil. Final purification through recrystallization from warm EtOAc
   and pentane afforded a white crystalline solid (0.369 g, 0.859 mmol; 85.9%).
                                            Example 48
20                            Syringe Adsorption of Imaging Agent 1
            Three two-component syringes (Henke Sass Wolf) as well as three three
   component syringes (Becton and Dickinson) were each filled with a 1 mL solution of
   imaging agent 1 (<5 volume % EtOH in H2 0 containing <50 mg/mL ascorbic acid); total
   initial radioactivity in each syringe was comparable. The two sets of filled syringes were
25 maintained at ambient temperature and humidity for a period of three hours, at which
   time the contents were injected into a clean 5 cc glass vial; a consistent volume of
   imaging agent 1 (0.1 mL) remained in the hub of each syringe. The total radioactivity
   content of both the vial and syringe were measured, decay corrected and the percent
   retention calculated. The values of percent radioactivity retained in each syringe are

                                                 - 167
   summarized in Table 20. The difference in percent retained activity is statistically
   significant at the 95% confidence level (i.e. Prob >|t| 0.0005).
               Table 20: Compiled Data for imaging agent 1 Retained in Syringes
                                 Syringe               Retained Activity [%]
                                  B&D                           32.4
                                  B&D                           35.2
                                  B&D                           38.9
                                  HSW                           11.3
                                  HSW                            7.0
                                  HSW                            5.1
                        B&D   =  Becton & Dickinson - HSW        =  Henke
                        Sass Wolf
 5
                                              Example 49
                        Syringe Component Adsorption of imaging agent 1
           To further identify the contact surface material that contributed to syringe
   retention of imaging agent 1, three additional B&D syringes were each filled with a 1
10 mL solution of imaging agent 1 then maintained at ambient temperature and humidity for
   a period of three hours. Following transfer of the individual doses as described in
   Example 1, the syringe barrel and butyl rubber tip plunger were then separated, measured
   for retained radioactivity and decay corrected. The values of percent retained
   radioactivity for each syringe component are summarized in Table 21. The difference in
15 percent retained activity is statistically significant at the 95% confidence level (i.e. Prob
   >|t| 0.0017).

                                                - 168
   Table 21: Percent imaging agent 1 Retained in B&D Syringe Components Post-Injection
                               Syringe Part           Retained Activity [%]
                                  Plunger                       30.9
                                  Plunger                       27.7
                                  Plunger                       21.8
                                   Barrel                        6.9
                                   Barrel                        5.5
                                   Barrel                        7.0
                                     B&D   = Becton & Dickinson
            It will be evident to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure is not limited
   to the foregoing illustrative examples, and that it can be embodied in other specific forms
 5 without departing from the essential attributes thereof. It is therefore desired that the
   examples be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive, reference being
   made to the appended claims, rather than to the foregoing examples, and all changes
   which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore
   intended to be embraced therein.
10          While several embodiments of the present invention have been described and
   illustrated herein, those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other
   means and/or structures for performing the functions and/or obtaining the results and/or
   one or more of the advantages described herein, and each of such variations and/or
   modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the present invention. More generally,
15 those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials,
   and configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual
   parameters, dimensions, materials, and/or configurations will depend upon the specific
   application or applications for which the teachings of the present invention is/are used.
   Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
20 experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
   described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are
   presented by way of example only and that, within the scope of the appended claims and
   equivalents thereto, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically
   described and claimed. The present invention is directed to each individual feature,
25 system, article, material, kit, and/or method described herein. In addition, any

                                                - 169
   combination of two or more such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or
   methods, if such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not
   mutually inconsistent, is included within the scope of the present invention.
            The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the specification and in the
 5 claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean "at least
   one."
            The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the claims, should
   be understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e., elements that
   are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Other
10 elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the
   "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified
   unless clearly indicated to the contrary. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to
   "A and/or B," when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising"
   can refer, in one embodiment, to A without B (optionally including elements other than
15 B); in another embodiment, to B without A (optionally including elements other than A);
   in yet another embodiment, to both A and B (optionally including other elements); etc.
            As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood
   to have the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating
   items in a list, "or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion
20 of at least one, but also including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and,
   optionally, additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such
   as "only one of' or "exactly one of," or, when used in the claims, "consisting of," will
   refer to the inclusion of exactly one element or a list of elements. In general, the term
   "'or" as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e. "one
25 or the other but not both") when preceded by terms of exclusivity, such as "either," "one
   of," "only one of," or "exactly one of." "Consisting essentially of," when used in the
   claims, shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.
            As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
   reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one
30 element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not
   necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the
   list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements.
   This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the

                                               - 170
   elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least
   one" refers, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus,
   as a non-limiting example, "at least one of A and B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A
   or B," or, equivalently "at least one of A and/or B") can refer, in one embodiment, to at
 5 least one, optionally including more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally
   including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to at least one, optionally
   including more than one, B, with no A present (and optionally including elements other
   than A); in yet another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one,
   A, and at least one, optionally including more than one, B (and optionally including other
10 elements); etc.
           In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
   "comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding,"
   and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including but not limited
   to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of' and "consisting essentially of' shall be
15 closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States
   Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03.
           The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is
   included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
   invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part
20 of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
   present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.

                                            -  171
                    The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. A cassette for the preparation of an imaging agent, comprising:
      (i) a vessel containing an imaging agent precursor;
 5    (ii) a vessel containing a bicarbonate salt; and
      (iii) a conduit for adding a source of 18F,
      wherein the imaging agent precursor comprises the formula:
                                         0
                                  R"            R2
                                      N:
                                      N         O03
      wherein:
10             R' is alkyl;
               R2 is halogen; and
               R3 is alkoxyalkyl substituted with a sulfonate-containing group; and
      wherein the imaging agent comprises the formula:
                                       0
                                R             R2
                                    N:
                                    N         O0R
15    wherein:
               R' is alkyl;
               R2 is halogen; and
               R3 is alkoxyalkyl substituted with 18F.
20 2. The cassette of claim 1, wherein the imaging agent comprising the formula:
                                  0
                           t-BuN         CI
                               N
                                         O 00^
                                                    /s, Og8F

                                               - 172
   3.       The cassette of claim 1 or 2, wherein the imaging agent precursor comprises the
   formula:
                                     0
                              t-BuN        C
                                                   0      0-O   O    Ts.
 5 4.       The cassette of claim 1, wherein R' is t-Bu.
   5.       The cassette of claim 1 or 4, wherein R2 is Cl.
   6.       The cassette of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the bicarbonate salt is a
10 tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate salt.
   7.       The cassette of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the molar ratio of the bicarbonate
   salt to the imaging agent precursor is between 1.5:1 and 0.25:1.
15 8.       An automated reaction system, comprising:
            the cassette of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the automated reaction system
   comprises a linear arrangement of a plurality of stopcock manifolds connected to one or
   more of the components selected from the group consisting of a [ 180]H2 0 recovery
   system, gas inlet, reservoir with solution of imaging agent precursor, vial, anion exchange
20 cartridge, C-18 cartridge, syringe, solvent reservoir, reaction vessel, HPLC system,
   collection vessel, reservoir for solution of ascorbic acid or salt thereof, and exhaust
   outlet.
   9.       An automated reaction system, comprising:
25          a reaction module, wherein the reaction module comprises a source of a     18F, a
   source of the imaging agent precursor, a source of a bicarbonate salt, wherein, wherein
   the imaging agent precursor comprises the formula:

                                               - 173
                                      0
                              t-Bu'N
                                  ,       CI
                                    NO
                                                   "/     O"       OTs.
   10.     The automated reaction system of claim 9, further comprising a purification
 5 module and a formulation module.
   11.     The automated reaction system of claim 10, wherein the formulation module
   comprises a source of a diluent, optionally wherein the diluent comprises ascorbic acid.
10 12.     The automated reaction system of any one of claims 9-11, wherein the automated
   reaction system is capable of preparing an imaging agent comprising the formula:
                                       0
                               t-BuN       CI
                                                      /    O    .18F.
   13.     The automated reaction system of any one of claims 9-12, wherein the
15 bicarbonate salt is a tetraalkylammonium bicarbonate salt.
   14.     An apparatus for synthesizing an imaging agent comprising a linear arrangement
   of a plurality of stopcock manifolds connected to one or more of the components
   selected from the group consisting of a [ 180]H 20 recovery system, gas inlet, reservoir
20 with solution of imaging agent precursor, vial, anion exchange cartridge, C-18 cartridge,
   syringe, solvent reservoir, reaction vessel, HPLC system, collection vessel, reservoir for
   solution of ascorbic acid or salt thereof, and exhaust outlet, wherein the apparatus is
   capable of carrying out the method comprising:
           (a) contacting a tosylate precursor comprising the structure:

                                                - 174
                                      0
                              t-Bu ,N      CI
                                        N~
                                                0   '      O*      OTs
   with an anhydrous fluoride species in the presence of a bicarbonate salt;
           (b) heating the mixture of (a), optionally to a temperature between 50 C and 250
    C and optionally heating the mixture for less than 5 minutes, less than 10 minutes, less
 5 than 20, minutes, or less than 30 minutes;
           (c) cooling the heated mixture;
           (d) adding H 2 0 to the cooled mixture;
           (e) purifying the mixture from the hydrated mixture of (d) using HPLC with an
   H2 0/MeCN eluent; and
10         (f) diluting the eluent with a solution of ascorbic acid or a salt thereof,
           wherein the imaging agent comprises the formula:
                                      0
                              t-Bu'N
                                            CI
                                    N       O0
   15.     The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the bicarbonate salt is a tetraalkylammonium
15 bicarbonate salt.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
