    E:\~w\ntewovn\N~oth\DCC\iPLMi6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                            - 21
                                                         ABSTRACT
An implantable orthopedic device comprising: an implant having a first surface that contacts a
patient's orthopedic joint, the implant further including a plurality of protrusions that connect
to the first surface and rise above the first surface and a plurality of pores dispersed within the
first surface.

                                  1/3
1500-o                                                   o
                                      0i 0      0 0   O0                  0
                o                     C0 00 0 00 OO
                            000        0 090000o           O
              o 00   000      0        og    0     00   CO e 0    0
            o        0    00              0O      OO 9000             O00
              8              0 00        0     0 00    000            O
        Co0000000                  0        O)     O0     O0O      00
                       00 D00000                         O 00
                    c>0           000                OOD 90    00 150
                 00 000                     0 00        O) 0    15004
                     0    0000
                00000       00 000 0000000                             0
    1500                       1504            102
                   00000FIG    C 2D        50      0

    R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\iPLMi6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                       IMPLANT COMPONENTS AND METHODS
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]               The entire contents of the complete specifications of Australian Patent Application
Nos. 2011264850 and <removed-apn> as originally filed are incorporated herein by reference.
[0002]               This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Patent Application
No. 61/352,705, filed June 8, 2010, United States Provisional Application No. 61/352,722,
filed June 8, 2010, United States Provisional Application No. 61/422,903, filed December 14,
2010, and United States Provisional Application No. 61/466,817, filed March 23,2011, which
are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
Background
[0003]               Joints often undergo degenerative changes due to a variety of reasons. When joint
degeneration becomes advanced or irreversible, it may become necessary to replace the natural
joint with a prosthetic joint. Artificial implants, including hip joints, shoulderjoints, and knee
joints are widely used in orthopedic surgery. Specifically, hip joint prostheses are common.
The human hip joint acts mechanically as a ball and socketjoint, wherein the ballshaped head
of the femur is positioned within the socket-shaped acetabulum of the pelvis.                   Various
degenerative diseases and injuries may require replacement of all or a portion of a hip using
synthetic materials, typically metals, ceramics, or plastics.
[0004]               More particularly, natural hips often undergo degenerative changes, requiring
replacement of the hip joint with a prosthetic joint. Often, the hip is replaced with two bearing
surfaces between the femoral head and the acetabulum. The first bearing surface is typically a
prosthesis shell or acetabular cup, which may be formed of metal, ceramic material, or as
otherwise desired. A liner (conventionally formed of polyethylene material such as ultra high
molecular weight polyethylene, a ceramic material, or in some cases, even a metal liner) is
then fit tightly within the shell to provide an inner bearing surface that receives and cooperates
with an artificial femoral head in an articulating relationship to track and accommodate the
relative movement between the femur and the acetabulum.

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                        -2
[0005]              The cup (or a cup and liner assembly) is typically fixed either by placing screws
through apertures in the cup or by securing the cup with cement. In some cases, only a liner is
cemented in a patient due to poor bone stock. In other cases, a cup having a porous surface
may be press fit into the reamed acetabular surface.
[0006]              It may become necessary to conduct a second or subsequent surgery in order to
replace a prosthetic joint with a (often larger) replacement joint. Such surgeries often become
necessary due to further degeneration of bone or advancement of a degenerative disease,
requiring removal of further bone and replacement of the removed, diseased bone with a larger
or enhanced prosthetic joint, often referred to as a revision prosthesis. For example, bone is
often lost around the rim of the acetabulum, and this may provide less rim coverage to
securely place a press-fit cup. Such surgeries may thus be referred to as revision surgeries.
[0007]              In acetabular revision surgery, an acetabular prosthesis generally includes
additional mounting elements, such as augments, flanges, hooks, plates, or any other
attachment or mounting points or members that provide additional support and/or stability for
the replacement prosthesis once positioned. These additional mounting or attachment
members are often required due to bone degeneration, bone loss, or bone defects in the
affected area (in this instance, the hip joint).
[0008]              Various types of these mounting members (which term is intended to include but
not be limited to flanges, blades, plates and/or hooks) may be provided in conjunction with a
prosthesis system in order to help the surgeon achieve optimal fixation, non-limiting examples
of which include iliac flanges (providing securement and fixation in and against the ilium
region of the pelvis), ischial blades (providing securement and fixation in and against the
ischium), and obturator hooks (providing securement and inferior fixation by engaging the
obturator foramen). Although there have been attempts to provide such mounting attachments
with modularity, the solutions to date have generally fallen short of providing true modularity.
Instead, they typically provide a few discrete positions at which the mounting members may
be positioned, without providing the surgeon a fuller range of decision options.
[0009]              Additionally, in some primary surgeries and more often in revision surgeries, the
acetabulum may have a bone defect or void that the surgeon must fill with bone grafts before

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                        -3
inserting a new shell. This can be time consuming and expensive, and may subject the patient
to additional health risks. Some techniques use an augment in connection with the acetabular
shell, which can be coupled to or otherwise attached to the outer surface of the shell.
[0010]              With current augments, the surgeon can attach the augment to the bone and then
implant the cup. However, many acetabular shells rely on bone screws to achieve proper
fixation and the augment often gets in the way of a screw. In short, surgeons need the freedom
to place screws in the best location, but this compromises their ability to use augments. With
current systems, it also takes an increased amount of time surgical time to trial the component
orientation and then try to find good bone fixation for the cup. The surgeon will often have to
free-hand the amount of bone removed while estimating the size of augment needed. In the
cases where bone is often deficient, surgeons are hesitant to take away any more bone than
necessary.
[0011]              Various additional features and improved features intended for use and application
with various types of joint implants are also described herein, such as improved bone screws,
improved coatings, and various augment removal and insertion options.
Summary
[0012]              Disclosed herein are systems, devices, and methods for providing modular
orthopedic implants. The implants may include a base member, such as an acetabular shell or
an augment, that is configured to couple with an augment, flange cup, mounting member, any
other suitable orthopedic attachment, or any combinations thereof. Mounting members
include, for example, flanges, blades, hooks, and plates. In some embodiments, the orthopedic
attachments may be adjustably positionable about the base member or other attachments
thereby providing modularity for assembling and implanting the device. Various securing
and/or locking mechanisms may be used between the components of the implant. In certain
embodiments, the orthopedic attachments are removably coupled to the base member or other
components. In certain embodiments, the orthopedic attachments are integrally provided on
the base member or other components, yet may still be adjustably positionable thereabout. In
some embodiments, expandable augments, base members, or other bone filling devices are
provided. In some embodiments, surface features are provided that create friction and allow

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                        -4
for surrounding bone ingrowth at the interface of the implants and a patient's bone.
[0013]              Systems, devices, and methods described herein provide implants that create
friction and allow for surrounding bone ingrowth at the interface of the implants and a
patient's bone. In certain embodiments, an implantable orthopedic device includes an implant
that has a surface that contacts a patient's joint and has a plurality of protrusions connected to
the surface that rise above the surface. The implant may also include pores dispersed
throughout the surface at the bone interface. The protrusions located at the surface of the
implant may be blunt, or may be any other suitable shape and configuration. The protrusions
may extend from the surface to any suitable height, such as heights between about 501,tm and
about 2000gm, heights between about 100ptm and 1 100um, or heights between about 200mm
and 400ium. The protrusions may be spaced on the surface of the implant in any suitable
concentration or density. The desired protrusion density may also be patient-specific, and may
be determined based on the density of a native bone into which a component is implanted. An
implant may have a large number of protrusion features on its surface, and one or more of
these individual features may fall outside of a desired size or spacing without affecting the
overall efficacy of the surface.
[0014]              In certain embodiments, an implant includes internal or external strengthening
features. A porous implant may include internal or external strengthening ribs to provide
support to surrounding porous structures. A porous implant may also be coupled with a flange
that has a first end for attaching the flange to the implant and a second end for attaching the
flange to surrounding bone structure. The porous implant may also include a reticulated
surface coating.
[0015]              In certain embodiments, an implantable orthopedic device is created by providing
a mold having a negative impression of a porous beaded surface and providing an implant
substrate to be coated. Particles are interposed between the implant substrate and the mold,
and a pressure or elevated temperature may be applied to the mold, implant substrate, and
particles. The implant substrate provided may be solid or may be porous, and the particles
interposed between the implant substrate and the mold may be symmetric or asymmetric.
[0016]              In certain embodiments, an implantable orthopedic device is created by creating a

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                        -5
three-dimensional model simulating an outer surface profile of a porous beaded implant and
creating a three-dimensional model of an implant substrate volume. The model simulating an
outer surface profile of a porous beaded implant is applied to the model of an implant substrate
volume to create a pre-form volume, and an algorithm is applied to fill the pre-form volume
with a desired reticulated structure to create a porous implant model. An implant is formed
using the porous implant model.
[0017]              In certain embodiments, an implantable orthopedic device is created by providing
a mold of an implant having an inner surface mimicking a negative image of an outer surface
profile geometry of a porous beaded surface and providing a plurality of particles that are
placed into the mold. Pressure or elevated temperature is applied to the mold and particles.
The particles placed into the mold may be symmetric or asymmetric.
[0018]              In certain embodiments, an implantable orthopedic device is created by providing
a mold of an implant having an inner surface mimicking a negative image of an outer surface
profile geometry of a porous beaded surface and loading one or more foaming agents into the
mold. A porous foam component is created in the general shape or size of the implant that has
an outer surface geometry mimicking an outer surface profile geometry of a porous beaded
surface. The porous foam component is removed from the mold, and a binding agent is
applied to the porous foam component. A plurality of symmetric or asymmetric particles are
applied to the porous foam component having the binding agent and the porous foam
component, binding agent, and particles are subjected to an elevated temperature to sinter the
particles together and burn out the foam component to form an implant having a roughened
porous texture with an outer surface profile geometry mimicking a clinically-proven porous
beaded structure. The porous foam component may be polymeric, and may be a polyurethane
component.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0019]              The foregoing and other objects and advantages will be apparent upon
consideration of the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings, in which like reference characters refer to like parts throughout, and
in which:

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\iPLMi6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                                -6
[0020]              FIG. I shows a first view of an illustrative implant component;
[0021]              FIG. 2 shows a second view of an illustrative implant component;
[0022]              FIG. 3 shows an illustrative implant coating volume having a spherical bead
surface profile;
[0023]              FIG. 4 shows an illustrative unit cell having a porous structure;
[0024]              FIG. 5 shows a cross-section of an illustrative coating volume with a spherical
bead profile and a porous structure;
[0025]              FIG. 6 shows a first illustrative SEM image of a porous surface; and
[0026]              FIG. 7 shows a second illustrative SEM image of a porous surface.
Detailed Description
[0027]              To provide an overall understanding of the systems, devices, and methods
described herein, certain illustrative embodiments will be described. Although the
embodiments and features described herein are specifically described for use in connection
with acetabular systems., it will be understood that all the components, connection
mechanisms, adjustable systems, fixation methods, manufacturing methods, coatings, and
other features outlined below may be combined with one another in any suitable manner and
may be adapted and applied to medical devices and implants to be used in other surgical
procedures, including, but not limited to: spine arthroplasty, cranio-maxillofacial surgical
procedures, knee arthroplasty, shoulder arthroplasty, as well as foot, ankle, hand, and other
extremity procedures.
[0028]              Various implants and other devices described herein in their various embodiments
may be used in conjunction with any appropriate reinforcement material, non-limiting
examples of which include bone cement, appropriate polymers, resorbable polyurethane,
and/or any materials provided by PolyNovo Biomaterials Limited, or any suitable
combinations thereof. Further non-limiting examples of potential materials that may be used
are    described              in the            following references: U.S.  Patent  Application  Publication
No. 2006/0051394, entitled "Biodegradable Polyurethane and Polyurethane Ureas," U.S.
Patent Application Publication No. 2005/0197422,                           entitled "Biocompatible Polymer
Compositions for Dual or Multi Staged Curing," U.S. Patent Application Publication

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PL~il6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                               -7
No. 2005/0238683, entitled "Biodegradable Polyurethane/Urea Compositions," U.S. Patent
Application Publication No. 2007/0225387, entitled "Polymer Compositions for Dual or Multi
Staged Curing,"                    U.S.        Patent Application   Publication No. 2009/0324675,    entitled
"Biocompatible                  Polymer Compositions,"            U.S.  Patent Application Publication   No.
2009/0175921, entitled "Chain Extenders," and U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
2009/0099600, entitled "High Modulus Polyurethane and Polyurethane/Urea Compositions."
Each of the prior references is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[0029]              Referring now to FIGS. 1-7, certain embodiments provide components having
porous beaded coatings and methods for their manufacture. Because implants and natural bone
usually have different degrees of flexibility, uneven stress distributions may occur.
Consequently, when an implant is loaded, there is generally some relative movement at the
interface between the bone (more compliant) and the implant (more rigid). Many implants thus
employ an intermediate material such as bone cement to reduce the amount of relative
movement; however, cementless implants may rely on relative roughness to achieve the same
goals.
[0030]              Historically, small spherical beads, bundles of thin wires, and thermal-sprayed
metal have been used to produce the friction necessary to reduce the amount of relative
movement. Optionally, screws and/or press-fit features may improve the fixation of implant
to bone. Such technologies are generally accepted by the orthopedic surgeon community.
However, the geometric nature of these coatings limits the location and size of their porosity.
Newer technologies, such as those that employ asymmetric beads or metallic foams have
improved the location and size of porosity, but they are difficult to manufacture with favorable
surface textures. Remedies have included placing hatch lines into the surface of an already
porous coating (e.g., via machining). Other porous surfaces have been manufactured having
sharp protrusions at a microscopic level. These protrusions can cause problems when there is
even a small amount of relative movement between the bone and implant. The sharper
protrusions can dig into the bone and create bone particles or can break off from the implant
and create wear particles at the implant-bone interface. In addition to loosening the attachment
between the implant and bone, these loose particles can cause harmful complications.

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
[0031]              The shortcomings of previous porous surfaces are addressed by providing an
implant having a surface that is textured with numerous blunt protrusions on a macroscopic
level and has a porous structure on a microscopic level. The blunt protrusions create friction
that reduces the amount of relative movement between an implanted component and
surrounding bone. The porosity allows the surrounding bone to grow into the implant, and the
lack of relative movement between implant and bone facilitates this ingrowth.
[0032]              A consideration in designing and creating a porous implant having blunt
protrusions is the size and density of the protrusions. The protrusions create an area on which
the bone initially contacts an implant. If the protrusions are too large or spaced too far apart,
the majority of the implant's surface area between the protrusions will be too far from the bone
for the bone to grow into the implant, and the bone may be unable to create a solid interface
with the implant. In contrast, if the protrusions arc too small or located too close together, their
effect will be minimal and an implant may encounter the same problems as prior implants with
smoother surfaces or surfaces composed of many concentrated sharp protrusions. An ideal
surface contains protrusions that are large enough to create the needed friction between the
bone and implant and still small enough to still allow for a high degree of bone ingrowth into
the porous surface. The protrusions may be any suitable height, and preferably are between
about 50tm and about 2000m. For certain applications, it may be preferable to limit the
protrusion heights to between 200tm and 400tm to achieve the desired level of friction and
ingrowth with surrounding bone.
[0033]              Protrusions on a surface of an implantable component may be any suitable shape
or profile desired for a general or specific application of the component. In certain
embodiments, each surface protrusion may be a bump shaped as a portion of a sphere above
the surface of the implant. Protrusions may also be shaped like wires or any other suitable
features, including features common to cementless implants.
[0034]              FIGS. I and 2 show some embodiments of an improved acetabular implant 1500
which may be a whole augment, a portion of an augment, a flange, a plate, other mounting
member, a shell, or a cage. The improved acetabular implant 1500 mimics the bumpy outer
surface geometries and profiles of clinically-successful porous beads, with the roughness and

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PL~il6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                        -9
porosity of a desired ingrowth interface. The surface of implant 1500 is textured by blunt
protrusions 1502, which are shaped substantially as hemispherical bumps on the surface of
implant 1500. The protrusions 1502 are sized and spaced to create desirable friction that
reduces movement of the implant 1500 relative to surrounding bone while allowing the
surrounding bone to grow substantially into the porous protrusions 1502 and porous surface
area 1504 between the protrusions. In addition to the protrusion heights discussed above, the
spacing and density of protrusions 1502 affect the amount of friction and bone ingrowth
created. Any suitable density of protrusions 1502 may be used for an implant, and the
protrusions preferably occupy between about 10% and about 60% of the surface. The
protrusions may be concentrated to a density of between about 0.25 beads/mm2 and about 6
beads/mm2.
[0035]              Improved acetabular implants, such as the implant 1500 of FIGS. 1 and 2, may be
formed by any suitable approach, and may be formed using one of the following four methods.
[0036]              A first method includes the steps of: 1) providing a mold having a negative
impression of a porous beaded surface, 2) providing an implant substrate, which may be solid
or porous, to be coated, 3) interposing small asymmetric particles between the implant
substrate and said mold, and 4) applying a pressure and/or an elevated temperature to the
mold, implant substrate, and small asymmetric particles to create a "green-state" implant (i.e.,
ready for full sintering) or a final implant (sintered), the implant having a roughened porous
coating with an outer surface geometries and profiles mimicking a clinically-proven porous
beaded structure with the roughness and porosity of a desired trabecular structure.
[0037]              A second method includes the steps of: 1) creating a 3D model simulating an outer
surface profile of a porous beaded implant, 2) creating a model of an implant substrate
volume, 3) applying the 3D model simulating an outer surface profile of a porous beaded
implant to the 3D model of the implant substrate volume to create a bumpy pre-form volume,
4) applying an algorithm to fill the bumpy pre-form volume with a desired interconnected
porous or otherwise reticulated structure to create a porous implant model, and 5) creating an
implant having a roughened porous texture with an outer surface profile geometry mimicking
a clinically-proven porous beaded structure using the implant model in a rapid-manufacturing

    R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                         - 10
process.
[0038]               A third method includes the steps of: 1) providing a mold of an implant having an
inner surface mimicking a negative image of an outer surface profile geometry of a porous
beaded surface, 2) providing a plurality of small asymmetric particles, 3) placing the plurality
of small asymmetric particles into the mold, and 4) applying a pressure and/or an elevated
temperature to the mold and/or small asymmetric particles to create a "green-state" implant
(i.e., ready for full sintering) or a final implant (sintered), the implant having a roughened
porous texture with an outer surface profile geometry mimicking a clinically-proven porous
beaded structure.
[0039]               A fourth method includes the creation of a beaded surface on a foam component
during the precursor step of making a metallic foam, the method comprising the steps of: 1)
providing a mold of an implant having an inner surface mimicking a negative image of an
outer surface profile geometry of a porous beaded surface, 2) loading one or more foaming
agents into the mold, 3) creating a porous foam component (e.g., polymeric, polyurethane) in
the general shape and/or size of said implant, which has an outer surface geometry mimicking
an outer surface profile geometry of a porous beaded surface, 4) removing the porous foam
component from the mold, 5) applying a binder or binding agent to the porous foam
component, 6) applying a plurality of small symmetric or asymmetric particles (or a
combination thereof) to the porous foam component having a binder or binding agent thereon,
7) subjecting the porous foam component having binder or binding agent and particles thereon
to an elevated temperature to sinter the particles together and/or burn out the foam component
to form a "green-state" implant (i.e., ready for full sintering) or a final implant (sintered), the
implant having a roughened porous texture with an outer surface profile geometry mimicking
a clinically-proven porous beaded structure. Implant has a bumpy outer surface profile and
geometries mimicking a clinically-proven porous-beaded structure.
[0040]               The substrate forming at least an outer portion of the implant may be a bulk
porous, reticulated structure resembling a trabecular structure. One or more core portions or
outer surface portions of the implant may be solid (e.g., a portion of the implant may be
configured for articulation with another implant component). The implant may also include

    R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PL~il6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                         - 11
one or more solid internal portions. For example, implant 1500 shown in FIG. 1 may include a
solid structural portion on the interior of the implant. The structural portion may be a single
solid area or multiple solid areas on the interior of implant 1500 that provide a series of
structural ribs to add support to the implant. The solid internal structure may have any suitable
shape and configuration, such as a structural lattice similar to rebar in concrete. Illustrative but
non-limiting examples areas where the internal structure may be desired include areas around
screw holes, the equator region of an augment, or any other suitable area. In some
embodiments, a polymer foam could be melted or burned to have the shape of beads - or the
foam could be polymerized on a bead-shaped subsurface resulting in the end-product having a
bead-shaped surface. In addition to solid internal components, implant 1500 may be coupled
with external flanges or other mounting members to provide additional support to the implant.
For example, implant 1500 may be implanted along with a flange that is attached to the
implant at a first end of the flange and attached to a patient's bone at a second end, for
example, with a bone screw secured into a through-hole in the flange. Implant 1500 may also
include external solid reinforcements, similar to common strut and brace structures, to provide
support to porous sections of the implant.
[0041]               For rapid-manufacturing technologies, the bead surface geometries and profile
could be created virtually and subtracted out from a bulk porous entity or virtual beads could
be created and combined with a porous entity. It is the general intent, in some, but not
necessarily all, embodiments that the end-product be homogenous. Alternate embodiments of
implants may include surface profiles that mimic metallic wire bundles or the peaks and
valleys of a thenal sprayed coating. Once a virtual model of the desired geometry is created
using modeling software, an implant component having the desired surface profile can be
created using any suitable rapid manufacturing techniques. For example, the porous implant
can be created using 3D printing technology that uses powdered metal to "print" the modelled
implant. In such an approach, a foam may be created having a surface profile that includes
protrusions, such as protrusions 1502 in FIGS. 1 and 2, and the profiled foam may then be
filled in with powdered metal to create a porous microstructure with the profiled surface. A
foam that does not contain the protrusions may also be used to create the porous
microstructure with powdered metal, and the desired surface profile with protrusions can then
be stamped into the surface of the porous metal implant.

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PL~il6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                               - 12
[0042]              Advantages of implants manufactured this way are that they contain integral
porosity with the initially bone-engaging surface profile of clinically-proven porous beads. In
other words, the same features providing the traction needed between bone and implant are the
same features providing a surface for bone to grow into and around for a rigid and enduring
fixation surface. As non-limiting examples, Tables A and B show some examples of
potentially suitable bead density (spacing), and diameter.
[0043]              Table A. Chart of number of beads in selected area and average and standard
deviation of bead diameter of 50 beads on a shell used with the Birmingham Hip® Resurfacing
system available from Smith & Nephew, Inc. in at least 3 fields of view (SEM, Jeol, Japan)
                             Beads in 6.4x4.8 mm area                  Bead Diamter (mm)
                                                        11           Average D        1.24
                                                        20           Std D            0.12
                                                        20
[0044]              Table B. Percent solid for typical beaded product for bone ingrowth.
          Product                                      Company        Implant Type         Percent Solid
CoCr ROUGHCOAT                                Smith and Nephew       Profix" Femoral          46.3%
          (2-layer)
    CoCr Porocoat                                       DePuy       LCS" Knee Femoral         46.5%
          (3-layer)
    CoCr Porocoat                                       DePuy          AML* Stem              50.2%
          (3-layer)
  Ti ROUGHCOAT                                Smith and Nephew        Synergy1 Stem           51.9%
          (2-layer)                       I                       I                                      I
Wherein, "percent solid" is a 2D measurement of bead density produced by typical
metallographic techniques based on the test method disclosed in ASTM F1854, entitled
"Standard Test Method for Stereological Evaluation of Porous Coatings on Medical Implants,"
which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

    R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PL~il6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                         - 13
[0045]               FIG. 3 shows a coating volume 1510 having spherical bead volumes 1512 placed
therein, such that the spherical bead volumes 1512 protrude from the coating volume 1510 to
form a second coating volume mimicking a spherical bead profile. Alternatively, solid
spherical beads may be combined into a porous coating. To create the coating volume 1510,
two software models can be created and then merged to form the final model of the porous
volume with the profiled protrusion surface. A first model of a macroscopic structure of the
volume, including the plurality of bead volumes 1512, can be created in modeling software,
and may look substantially the same as the volume shown in FIG. 3.
[0046]               A second software model can be created to produce the porous microscopic
structure desired for a macroscopic volume, such as the volume shown in FIG. 3. FIG. 4
shows a unit cell 1520 of an exemplary porous reticulated structure, which may configured to
fill the coating volume mimicking a spherical bead profile. The unit cell 1520 is made up of a
complex structure of struts 1512. The arrangement of struts 1512 creates voids 1514 within
unit cell 1520, thus making the desired porous microstructure. The size and arrangement of
struts 1512 can be varied to control the number and size of voids 1514. By controlling the size
and arrangement of the struts 1512, a desired amount and profile of the porous structure is
achieved.
[0047]               FIG. 5 shows a cross section of a coating volume 1530, which may correspond to
coating volume 1510 of FIG. 3, mimicking a spherical bead profile after the volume has been
replaced with a reticulated structure (e.g., via a repeating unit cell such as unit cell 1520 in
FIG. 4 in CAS software, or using any of the 4 methods described above). The finished coating
volume 1530 exhibits both the profiled macrostructure and porous microstructure. The dotted
lines in FIG. 5 outline the surface profile of coating volume 1530 and show the protrusions
that create a bumpy surface that produces friction with bone when implanted.                   The
microstructure of coating volume 1530, made up of a combination of solid structure 1532 and
voids 1534, creates a porous implant into which surrounding bone can grow to fill in voids
 1534 and create a solid mating of implant and bone.
[0048]               FIG. 6 shows an SEM image 1540 taken at 25x magnification of the surface of a
part made by the disclosed method. Surface topography is not apparent with this view. FIG. 7

H:\plw\Interoven.\NRPortbl\DCC\PLW\16440307_Ldoex-9/02/2018
                                                                         - 14
is an SEM image taken 1550 at 50x magnification of the structure made with the disclosed
method. The structures shown in FIGS. 6 and 7 exhibit the porous microstructure discussed
above with respect to coating volumes 1510 and 1530, and can be created by merging a solid
macrostructure with a porous microstructure model, such as the unit cell 1520 in FIG. 4.
[0049]                    As a further non-limiting example, the following chart shows some additional
exemplary parameters that have proven to be useful for various embodiments. In the chart
below, MVIL refers to Mean Void Intercept Length, which is another way of characterizing
the average pore size, particularly in structures where the pore shapes and sizes are not
uniform. On generally known definition of MVIL is "measurement grid lines are oriented
parallel to the substrate interface. The number of times the lines intercept voids is used with
the volume percent void to calculate the mean void intercept length."
                                                            Electron beam     Direct metal laser Landon Structure
                                                                melting        sintering (SLS)       (FIG 4)
                                                                (EBM)         Eurocoating EOS
                                                                                  275-450           275-400
     Avg. Strut Thickness (pm)                                     --                (360)            (340)
                                                              300-920*            450-690
         Avg. Pore Size: MVIL                                    (565)               (560)
                                          Pore               900 - 1300*         1310    280        1970 ±40
    Average Pore                      Window                       --             370    100        830   150
       Size: (pm)
                                           Not                670 -   1340        600    100            -
                                      Specified]
*(fine, medium, and coarse structures)
[0050]                    It is generally desirable to provide between about 60-85% porosity. Pore sizes
may generally range between about 50-1000 microns. In the above example, the smallest pore
size provided was about 300 microns, and the smallest window was about 595 microns across
at its largest diameter. It will be understood that this example is intended to be non-limiting
and provided for illustrative purposes only.

    R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                         - 15
[0051]               The systems, methods, and devices described herein to create implants having both
a profiled macrostructure and a porous microstructure can allow a medical professional to
utilize customizable, patient-specific implants.              A customized implant can be efficiently
created using the rapid manufacturing techniques discussed herein by merging two or more
models of an implant and then printing the modeled component. This could allow a medical
professional, such as an orthopedic surgeon, to order an implant specific to a single patient,
including modeling the size and shape of the implant to fit defects or other unique features of
the patient's anatomy. This process can also be automated by taking bone scans of the
patient's anatomy or using other available medical imaging and modeling techniques to
automatically create a 3D model to use for rapid manufacturing.
[0052]               The ability to customize an individual implant also allows a medical professional
to adjust the detailed macrostructure and microstructure of the implant to fit the needs of a
particular application. For example, an orthopedic surgeon can adjust the macrostructure of
the implant by selecting the shape, height, density, or other characteristics of protrusions on
the surface of the implant. The surgeon can also customize the number and size of voids
within the implant to achieve a desired porosity for the implant. In some embodiments, the
surgeon may also select the configuration of the macrostructure of the implant. For implants
that include internal solid portions for strength and structure, the surgeon can customize the
size and location of the internal solid portions to provide the structure in certain non-uniform
areas of the implant where increased strength is needed. Illustrative but non-limiting examples
areas where increased strength may be desired include areas around screw holes, the equator
region of an augment, connection sites of augments, augment areas that are thinner than
others, or any other suitable area. The surface profile of the implant can also be non-uniform
if different areas of the implant require different levels of friction or surface area for a bone
interface. A surgeon may want a higher concentration of surface protrusions in certain areas
of the implant, such as areas that experience higher levels of stress, and a lower concentration
of protrusions, or no protrusions at all, in other areas.
[0053]               Porous implants described herein allow for an implant to provide good contact
surface area and friction regardless of the quality of bone into which an implant is implanted.
For example, patients who have soft spongy bone may need features that are longer, and a

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PL~il6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                        - 16
lower number of those features. Patients with hard dense bone may require features that are
shorter, but a higher number of those features to create the same fixation in the bone. The
specific requirements of a patient's anatomy and bone quality can be accommodated by the
individualized design options provided by the porous implants described herein.
[0054]              The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of the disclosure, and the
systems, devices, and methods can be practiced by other than the described embodiments,
which are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation. It is to be understood
that the systems, devices, and methods disclosed herein, while shown for use in acetabular
systems, may be applied to medical devices to be used in other surgical procedures including,
but not limited to, spine arthroplasty, cranio-maxillofacial surgical procedures, knee
arthroplasty, shoulder arthroplasty, as well as foot, ankle, hand, and extremities procedures.
[0055]              Variations and modifications will occur to those of skill in the art after reviewing
this disclosure.                The disclosed features may be implemented, in any combination and
subcombinations (including multiple dependent combinations and subcombinations), with one
or more other features described herein. The various features described or illustrated above,
including any components thereof, may be combined or integrated in other systems.
Moreover, certain features may be omitted or not implemented.
[0056]              Examples of changes, substitutions, and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled
in the art and could be made without departing from the scope of the information disclosed
herein. All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety and made
part of this application.
[0057]              Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
'comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[0058]              The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or

   E:\~w\ntewovn\N~oth\DCC\PL~il6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                        - 17
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[0059]              While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it
should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by way
of limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various changes in
form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described
exemplary embodiments.

   R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\iPLMi6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                        - 18
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.          An implantable orthopedic device comprising:
            an implant having a first surface that contacts a patient's orthopedic joint,
            the implant further including a plurality of protrusions that connect to the first surface
and rise above the first surface and a plurality of pores dispersed within the first surface.
2.          The device of claim 1, wherein the protrusions are blunt.
3.          The device of any of claims I and 2, wherein the protrusions rise above the first
surface to a height between about 50 [m and about 2,000 [m.
4.          The device of claim 3, wherein the height is between about 100 [m and about
1,100 pm.
5.          The device of any of claims 3 and 4, wherein the height is between about 200 pm and
about 400 pm.
6.          The device of any of claims 1-5, wherein the plurality of protrusions is included with a
concentration between about 0.25 protrusions per square millimeter and about 6 protrusions
per square millimeter.
7.          The device of any of claims 1-6, further comprising a strengthening rib disposed along
or within the implant.
8.          The device of any of claims 1-7, comprising a flange having a first end attached to the
implant, and a second end that includes a through-hole for attachment to a patient's bone.
9.          The device of any of claims 1-8, comprising a reticulated surface coating on the
implant.
10.         A method for preparing an implantable orthopedic device, the method comprising:
            providing a mold having a negative impression of a porous beaded surface;
            providing an implant substrate to be coated;
            interposing particles between the implant substrate and the mold; and

    R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PL~il6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                         - 19
             applying a pressure or elevated temperature to the mold, implant substrate, and
particles.
11.          The method of claim 10, wherein the implant substrate is solid or porous.
12.          The method of any of claims 10 and 11, wherein the particles are asymmetric.
13.          A method for preparing an implantable orthopedic device, the method comprising:
             creating a three-dimensional model simulating an outer surface profile of a porous
beaded implant;
             creating a three-dimensional model of an implant substrate volume;
             applying the three-dimensional model simulating an outer surface profile of a porous
beaded implant to the three-dimensional model of an implant substrate volume to create a pre
form volume;
             applying an algorithm to fill the pre-form volume with a desired reticulated structure to
create a porous implant model; and
             forming an implant using the porous implant model.
14.          A method for preparing an implantable orthopedic device, the method comprising:
             providing a mold of an implant having an inner surface mimicking a negative image of
an outer surface profile geometry of a porous beaded surface;
             providing a plurality of particles;
             placing the plurality of particles into the mold; and
             applying a pressure or elevated temperature to the mold.
15.          The method of claim 14, wherein the particle are asymmetric.
16.          A method for preparing an implantable orthopedic device, the method comprising:
             providing a mold of an implant having an inner surface mimicking a negative image of
an outer surface profile geometry of a porous beaded surface;
             loading one or more foaming agents into the mold;
             creating a porous foam component in the general shape or size of the implant, the
implant having an outer surface geometry mimicking an outer surface profile geometry of a
porous beaded surface;

    E:\~w\ntewovn\N~oth\DCC\PLMil6440307_i.de- 9/02/2018
                                                         - 20
             removing the porous foam component from the mold;
             applying a binding agent to the porous foam component;
             applying a plurality of symmetric or asymmetric particles to the porous foam
component having the binding agent thereon;
             subjecting the porous foam component having the binding agent and particles thereon
to an elevated temperature to sinter the particles together and burn out the foam component to
form an implant, the implant having a roughened porous texture with an outer surface profile
geometry mimicking a clinically-proven porous beaded structure.
17.          The method of claim 16, wherein the porous foam component is polymeric.
18.          The method of any of claims 16 and 17, wherein the porous foam component is
polyurethane.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
