                                               ABSTRACT
A communication system is disclosed. In an embodiment, the communication system includes a user node
for receiving data from a remote application program, the data including message data for communication
to a central application program operatively associated with the remote application program; plurality of
geographically distributed gateway nodes; one or more access nodes for receiving the message data from
the user node via a first communications interface, and communicating the message data via a second
communications interface to one or more of the plurality of geographically distributed gateway nodes;
and a hub for communicating with the one or more of the plurality of geographically distributed gateway
nodes to receive the message data for communication to the central application.

                                             2/9
                                 306                                                     4  ,300
                                                Access             ANA-IX
      100
                                                  Node
                 304
                                                 (AN-1)
                         Remote Radio
RAA                      Interface (RRI)
                                                                   Gateway Radio
             User       ,.Interface                                        (GRI)
             Node                                                   +
RA-1B        UN1
                                              N 31Gateway                                      GNA-IY
                                             314                           A      Node
             Us                                                                  (GN-1)
            (UND2)
                                          308
             User
                                                          Gateway                  ruCA-1
                                                           (GN-2)                cetAl
            (UN-3)
                                                                                                 CA-Y
                                                                                        102
                                          Figure 3
                                                                                                 400
                                         System Entity
                                Node                            Application
                                                                Environment
                                  404                                 (AE)
                           Radio Interface                            410
                       Application Interface
                         Node Management                       IP Networking
          402                                           -         &Ethemnet
                      Time & Position Service                         408
                     Authentication & Security
                                Service                               GPS
                                                                      406
                                          Figure 4

                                                        1
                             COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND METHOD
PRIORITY DOCUMENTS
[001]     The present application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
2012904130 filed on 21 September 2012, and is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No 2013317705 filed 20 September 2013 which is a national phase application of PCT/AU2013/001078
filed on 13 March 2015. The content of each of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference in
their entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[002]     The present invention relates to a communication system and method. In a typical application, an
embodiment of the present invention may provide services for supporting data communication between
remotely deployed equipment and a control and management system via a satellite based access node.
BACKGROUND
[003]     Providing two-way data communications to remote sensors and devices is becoming increasingly
critical for a wide range of applications. Cost effective communications to terrestrial and maritime field
sensors, and industrial automation and control equipment, for example, has the potential to deliver
significant economic and environmental benefits in areas such as environmental monitoring for climate
change, water, mining, agriculture, defence and national security.
[004]     Many high-value applications have modest data rate requirements (kilobits per second), and can
tolerate intermittent communications with latency up to several hours. Frequently such applications
involve sensors in very remote areas where terrestrial communication solutions do not exist, are
unreliable, are denied or insecure (for example, in a defence context). These constraints often mandate the
use of satellite communications. For example, for long range oceanic environmental monitoring for
environmental, economic and national security reasons, satellite communications is the only feasible
solution for command, control and extraction of sensor data. Often, this information will be sensitive (for
economic or national security reasons), and so a secure communication system is required.
[005]     Unfortunately, existing commercial satellite services may be designed for other applications. For
example, at one end of the scale there are expensive, real-time, broadband services. At the other end,
there is one-way communications for very small amounts of data.

                                                       2
[006]    Prohibitive cost and technical constraints have limited widespread use of large numbers of remote
field sensors. Accordingly, it appears that remote communications are commonly under-utilised, or
cumbersome data collection is employed, for example, infrequent manual retrieval through site visits,
diminishing the ability to collect critical data.
[007]    There is thus a need to provide a communications system and method which provides improved
communication services for remotely deployed equipment.
SUMMARY
[008]    According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a composite gateway node
and access node apparatus comprising:
         at least one antenna,
         a gateway radio interface configured to communicate with one or more access nodes or
composite gateway node and access node apparatus;
         a remote radio interface configured to communicate with one or more user nodes or composite
gateway node and access node apparatus;
         a power supply;
         at least one processor and a memory comprising instructions to configure the apparatus to:
         exchange one or more small data messages either uni-directionally from one or more user nodes
to a central application hub, or bi-directionally to and from one or more user nodes and the central
application hub; and
         either simultaneously provide an access node and a gateway node modes, or to switch modes
between the access node mode and a gateway node mode, and in access node mode the remote radio
interface is configured to communicate with one or more user nodes to exchange the one or more small
data messages, and in gateway node mode the gateway radio interface is configured to communicate with
one or more access nodes or gateways providing the access node mode to exchange the one or more small
data messages.
[009]    In one form, the gateway apparatus switch modes between providing access node functionality
and gateway node functionality, and mode switching is triggered based on proximity to one or more other
access nodes.
[010]    In one form, the gateway apparatus switch modes between providing access node functionality
and gateway node functionality, and mode switching is triggered based on mode control instructions
received from the central application hub. In a further form the apparatus is configured to obtain and/or
store a location of the apparatus and the memory is configured to obtain and store locations of other

                                                      3
access nodes or composite gateway and access node apparatus and the apparatus determines when to
switch modes based on the stored locations. In a further form the apparatus switch modes between
providing access node functionality and gateway node functionality, and the apparatus is configured to
detect the presence of a second access node or a second gateway node, and upon detection triggers mode
switching, wherein if the apparatus switches to the gateway node mode it becomes a slave to the second
access node as its master, and if the apparatus switches to the access node mode it becomes a master and
the second gateway node becomes a slave to the apparatus.
[011]    In one form, the apparatus is configured to detect the presence of a second access node or a
second composite gateway node and access node apparatus, and upon detection, negotiates the use of
channel resources in order to co-exist and/or cooperate.
[012]    In one form, the small data messages are exchanged directly with the central application hub over
a further communication link provided using a further communication interface or indirectly over the
gateway radio interface, wherein the small data messages are exchanged indirectly by hopping between
one or more intervening composite gateway node and access node apparatus and/or gateway node
apparatus. Further the small data messages are exchanged with a user node either directly over the remote
radio interface or indirectly over the gateway radio interface by hopping between one or more intervening
access node, gateway node and/or composite gateway node and access node apparatus.
[013]    In one form, the memory comprises instructions to configure the apparatus to provide:
         a message storage function configured to:
         store one or more small data messages destined for the central application hub when an active
connection to the central application hub is unavailable, and to then forward the one or more small data
messages to another gateway node, or composite gateway and access node apparatus when an active
connection is available; and/or
         store one or more small data messages destined for a user node when an active connection to the
user node is unavailable, and to then forward the one or more small messages to the user node or to
another access node, gateway node, or composite gateway and access node apparatus when an active
connection is available.
[014]    In one form, the composite gateway node and access node apparatus is configured to obtain
and/or store routing information for each message and transmits the message to a next system entity on
the route when an active connection to the next system entity is available, wherein the next system entity
is one of the user node, access node, gateway node, or composite gateway and access node apparatus, or
the central application hub.

                                                      4
[015]   In one form, when in access mode the apparatus is configured to:
         store a channel data sample of a signal received via the remote radio interface;
        transmit the channel data sample over the gateway radio interface for signal processing remote
from the apparatus.
[016]   In a further form, when in access mode the apparatus is further configured to time stamp the
stored channel data sample and to transmit either the time stamp with the stored channel data sample, or
transmit the time stamp and the composite gateway node and access node apparatus position with the
stored channel data sample.
[017]   In one form, when in access node mode transmissions to one or more gateway nodes are
configured to use a rateless coding scheme to transmit coded packets, and in gateway mode coded packets
received from an access node are forwarded to the hub for decoding.
[018]   In one form, the at least one antenna is an omnidirectional antenna.
[019]   In one form, the apparatus is a low power node having an EIRP of less than 5W.
[020]   In one form, the composite gateway node and access node apparatus is a software defined radio.
[021]   In one form, the power supply is a battery and/or solar powered power supply.
[022]   In one form, the apparatus may be terrestrially located, airborne, or space-based.
[023]   Embodiments of the present invention are expected to provide advantages in various applications
requiring satellite based communications systems. By way of examples, such applications may include
long range oceanic environmental monitoring, unattended ground sensors, and monitoring and control of
remote assets for the mining industry.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[024]   A preferred embodiment of the present invention will be discussed with reference to the
accompanying drawings wherein:
[025]   FIGURE 1 is a data flow diagram showing a unidirectional message transfer from one or more
remote application programs to a single central application;

                                                     5
[026]    FIGURE 2 is a data flow diagram showing a bidirectional message transfer between one or more
remote application programs and a single central application program;
[027]    FIGURE 3 is a system block diagram for a communication system according to an embodiment
of the present invention;
[028]    FIGURE 4 is a functional block diagram for a node architecture suitable for use with a
communication system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[029]    FIGURE 5 is a functional block diagram for a STI recorder node suitable for use with a
communication system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[030]    FIGURE 6 is a block diagram for a system in accordance with an embodiment including a
multimode gateway/access terminal operating in a access node mode in accordance with an embodiment
of the present invention;
[031]    FIGURE 7 is a block diagram for a communication system in accordance with an embodiment
including a multimode gateway/access terminal operating in a gateway mode in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[032]    FIGURE 8 is a block diagram for a system in accordance with an embodiment including a
multimode gateway/access terminal simultaneously operating in a gateway node and an access mode;
[033]    FIGURE 9 is a block diagram for a system in accordance with an embodiment including plural
multimode gateway/access terminals;
[034]    FIGURE 10 is a functional block diagram for a central host suitable for use with a system in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[035]    FIGURE 11 is a system block diagram for an example implementation of a system in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention;
[036]    FIGURE 12 is a protocol stack structure suitable for use with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[037]    FIGURE 13 depicts one embodiment of a compact antenna;
[038]    FIGURE 14 depicts a further embodiment of a compact antenna; and

                                                        6
[039]     FIGURE 15 depicts test results including SNR measurements.
[040]     In the following description, like reference characters designate like or corresponding parts
throughout the figures.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[041]     An embodiment of the present invention will now be described in terms of a satellite
communication system which provides services which allow message store and forward between
remotely deployed equipment and a centralised control and management system of an end user via a
satellite based access node. In general terms, the types of services provided by the system may include
communication services, system services and user services.
[042]     In terms of communication services, in the present example, two types of communication services
may be provided by an embodiment of the communication system, namely, Service Type I (hereinafter
"STI") and Service Type 2 (hereinafter "ST2"). Service Type I (STI) is a 1-way service, catering to
terminals with small transmission size requirements, whereas Service Type 2 (ST2) is a 2-way service,
catering to terminals with larger data transfer requirements. Both the STI and ST2 service types may be
provided within a common message store-and-forward network framework.
[043]     The service types provided by embodiments of the system may cater for unidirectional (that is,
one way) communication or bidirectional (that is, two-way) communication respectively. In this respect,
the described embodiment of the present invention relates to an integrated communication service
offering both service types. However, it is to be appreciated that it is not essential that all embodiments
of the present invention offer both communication service types. In this respect, Figure 1 shows an
example of a unidirectional message transfer from one or more remote application programs 100 (shown
as RA-1A, RA-2A., and RA-3A) to a single central application program 102 (shown as CA-A) using a
unidirectional service 104 (shown as ST-1). On the other hand, Figure 2 shows an example of a
bidirectional message transfer between one or more remote application programs 100 (shown as RA-1A,
RA-2A, and RA-3A) and a single central application program 102 (shown here as CA-A) using a bi
directional service 200 (shown as ST-2).
[044]     Figure 3 shows a block diagram for a communication system 300 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention. As shown, the system 300 includes plural remote application
programs 100 (shown as RA-1A, RA-IB, RA-2X, and RA-3A), plural user nodes 304 (shown as UN-1,
UN-2, UN-3), an access node 306 (shown as AN-1), geographically distributed gateway nodes 308
(shown as GN-1, GN-2), central application programs 102 (shown as CA-A, CA-B, CA-X, CA-Y), access

                                                       7
node application program (shown as ANA-IX), and a central application hub 312 (shown as CAH). it
will of course be appreciated that the number of remote application programs 100, central application
programs 102, access nodes 306, user nodes 304, and gateway nodes 308 included in the illustrated
embodiment is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments of the
present invention may include a different number of remote application programs 100, central application
programs 102, user nodes 304, access nodes 306, gateway nodes 308, and potentially central application
hubs.
[045]    In the present case, each node is an individually addressable functional network entity that
provides radio communication services within the system 300. Each user node 304 provides
communication services to one or more of the remote application programs RA-IA, RA-IB, RA-2X, and
RA-3A which allows the remote application programs to communicate with an associated central
application program CA-A, CA-B, CA-X, CA-A via the communications system 300.Two logical
communication interfaces are also shown, namely the remote radio interface 314 (RRI), and the gateway
radio interface 316 (GRI). The nodes and the communication interfaces will be described in more detail
later.
[046]    In the present case, each of the functional network entities has access to a common timing
reference (not shown), such as a common timing reference provided by a Global Positioning System
(GPS). All transmissions in the system 300 are time-synchronised to this reference. For convenience we
shall use the term "GPS" to denote the common timing reference. However it will be appreciated that
other time (and position) determination systems may be used.
[047]    The remote application programs 100 may be installed on a user device (not shown) equipped
with suitable processing and communications infrastructure, such as a user terminal (UT) or another
device which is connected to a suitable user terminal via a communications interface. The user or other
device will typically be located in geographic locations which are remote from its associated central
application program and thus may be located in a region not readily accessible to a user.
[048]    The remote application program 100 may include, for example, an environmental monitoring
remote application program for collecting, processing and transmitting environmental monitoring data
(such as temperature, audio, video, and/or other sensor data) from one or more sensors; an asset
monitoring remote application program for collecting, processing and transmitting of system monitoring
data, such as from mining equipment, water infrastructure, energy infrastructure, transport assets and
infrastructure; a remote application program for processing and/or forwarding of data within a SCADA
system; a remote application program for monitoring and controlling local equipment in response to
operational commands issued by a corresponding central application; a remote application program for

                                                        8
object position reporting, enabling object tracking and monitoring services (objects may be land, air or
sea based, and could be mobile or stationary); or a remote application program for delivering system
services applications such as file transfer, firmware upgrade (user terminal and/or application), and node
monitoring and management.
[049]     In the present case, each of the plural remote application programs 100 are operatively associated
with a respective one or more of the central application programs 102. In the system 300 illustrated in
Figure 3, the remote application programs RA-1A, RA-1B are operatively associated with central
application programs CA-A and CA-B respectively, whereas remote application programs RA-2X, and
RA-3A are associated with central application programs CA-X and CA-A respectively. In this respect,
throughout this specification references to "operatively associated", where used to describe a relationship
between a remote application program and a central application program, are to be understood to denote a
relationship in which the remote application program and the central application program are elements of
a distributed application, and thus have a functional interdependency. In other words, the remote
application program and the central application operate in combination to deliver or provide a service.
[050]     In embodiments of the present invention, a distributed application may be formed through
distribution of application programs (that is, software) running on multiple nodes of the system 300. In
this respect, the term "software," as used herein, includes but is not limited to one or more computer
readable and/or executable instructions that cause a computer or other electronic device to perform
functions, actions, and/or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms
such as routines, algorithms, modules or programs including separate applications or code from
dynamically linked libraries. Software may also be implemented in various forms such as a stand-alone
program, a function call, a servlet, an applet, instructions stored in a memory, part of an operating system
or other type of executable instructions. It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skilled in the art that the
form of software is dependent on, for example, requirements of a desired application, the environment it
runs on, and/or the desires of a designer/programmer or the like.
[051]     Furthermore, those of skill in the art would appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks,
modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein
may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer software, or combinations of both. To clearly
illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks,
modules, circuits, and steps will be described in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is
implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints
imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying
ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as
causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

                                                        9
[052]    Preferably, distributed elements (that is, the application programs) of the distributed application
can thus run in connection with any one of any node(s) of the system 300. In this way, for example, an
application program operatively associated with a central application program may interoperate to permit,
for example, an increased level of access to services, node system function access, firmware upgrade and
remote management. Interoperation of this type may also support collation and/or processing of message
data, decision making, and possibly provide a reduced load on communications interfaces.
[053]    In the example that follows, application programs will be described in terms of the remote
application programs 100 and the central application program(s) 102. However, it is to be appreciated
that other application programs may also be provided, such as, access node applications and gateway
node applications, each of which may also be operatively associated with a central application program
102.
[054]    Each of the central application programs 102 may include an application program in the form of
computer executable software installed on a user device such as a host computer accessible to a user and
equipped with suitable processing and communications infrastructure. Suitable host computers may
include a tablet, a desktop computer, a smart phone, a laptop computer, a notebook computer or the like.
[055]    One or more of the central application programs 102 may provide one or more functions for
controlling, managing, monitoring, configuring, or updating the associated remote application program.
Examples of central application programs include an environmental monitoring central application
program for collating and/or processing sensor data from one or more remote application programs and
potentially combining geographic and sensor data to produce measures of distributed natural processes;
an asset monitoring and tracking central application program for processing position and sensor data from
user assets and potentially providing historical, current and potentially estimated future location
information; a central application program for monitoring the state of remote plant, and potentially
processing state data to make decisions about future plant operations; a central application program for
distributing firmware upgrade data and commands to one or more remote nodes (which may include
system and/or remote application program firmware); a central application program for transmitting and
receiving files to/from other nodes within the communication system 300.
[056]    In some embodiments, a central application program permits remote management and control of
the associated remote application program. Such a central application program may also send commands
to a monitoring and control remote application in order to control, for example, plant operation, and/or the
collection of monitoring data to, for example, control and monitoring of a fleet of autonomous vehicles.

                                                       10
[057]    To access the services of the system 300, each of the central application programs 102 is
preferably required to register with the central application hub 312 (hereinafter the "hub") by a suitable
registration process. Registration of each of the central application programs 102 with the hub 312 may
be performed, for example, across a network for example, via an Internet Protocol based mechanism.
Similarly, each of the remote application programs 100 are preferably required to register with a
respective one of the user nodes 304 via a suitable registration process using a suitable application
interface such as an application interface protocol operating over IP services (for example, TCP), or a
software API employing software function calls.
[058]    Once registered, a remote application may transmit messages to its associated central application
program via the user node with which it has registered.
[059]     In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 3, one or more of the user nodes 304 may provide a
message storage function (MSF) which:
e        Stores partial messages received from the access node 306, until all message fragments are
         received. When a message is fully received, it is delivered to a destination remote application
         program; and
*        Stores messages from a remote application RA-1A, RA-2A, RA-2X, and RA-3A connected to a
         user node UN-1, UN-2, UN-3 until the access node 306 becomes available to allow outgoing
         messages to be transmitted.
[060]    One or more of the user nodes 304 may also provide system management services, such as:
*        A firmware upgrade mechanism to allow all aspects of the node software/firmware to be reliably
         upgraded; and
e        Node management services.
[061]    In some embodiments, the user nodes 304 may compress data prior to transmission to reduce load
on the communications interfaces 314, 316.
[062]    GATEWAY NODES
[063]    In the embodiment depicted in Figure 3, each of the plurality of gateway nodes 308 are
geographically distributed over an area and provide communication services to the hub 312 and the access
node 306 for communicating messages to/from the central application programs 102. Each gateway node
GN-1, GN-2 also provides the gateway radio interface 316 and an application interface as described
below.

                                                      11
[064]   The gateway nodes 308 also provide a connection to the hub 312, the availability of which may
be:
e       Persistent: for example, via a permanent Internet connection; or
e       Intermittent - for example, via a wireless network connection that becomes active when a mobile
        Gateway Node moves into range of the network.
[065]   Each of the plurality of gateway nodes 308 may provide a message storage function (MSF) at the
gateway which:
e       Routes messages between the hub 312 and the one or more access nodes in the system 300.
*       Stores partial messages received from the access node 306, until all message fragments are
        received. Messages (or received message fragments in the case of a broken connection) are
        delivered to the hub 312 for delivery to its destination central application program CA-A, CA-B,
        CA-X, CA-Y. In the case of a broken connection, remaining fragments at the access node 306
        may be delivered to a different gateway node for message re-construction at the hub 312. If a
        connection to the hub 312 is not available, the message is stored until a connection becomes
        available.
e       Stores messages destined for a remote application RA-IA, RA-1B, RA-2X, RA-3A received from
        the hub 312 until the access node 306 becomes available to allow outgoing messages to be
        transmitted.
*       Stores messages received from local gateway node applications (via an application interface) until
        a connection to the destination becomes available, for example, via the access node 306 or hub
        312 connection.
[066]   Each gateway node GN-1, GN-2 may also provide system services, such as:
e       A firmware upgrade mechanism to allow all aspects of software/firmware installed on the
        gateway node to be reliably upgraded; and
*       Node management services described below.
[067]   In some embodiments, one or more of the gateway nodes 308 may be instantiated as a special
type of user node, which is given priority access to the radio interface. Furthermore, one or more of the
gateway nodes 308 may compress data prior to transmission to reduce load on the radio interface.
[068]   One or more of the gateway node 308 may be located on the surface of the earth, be airborne, or
space-based.
[069]   ACCESS NODES

                                                      12
[070]   The access node 306 may include a space-based, airborne, or terrestrial entity providing:
*       1 and/or 2-way communication with remote terminals via the remote radio interface 314;
e       1 and/or 2-way communication with gateway terminals via the gateway radio interface 316; and
e       An application interface.
[071]   In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 3, the access node 306 communicates message data
intended for communication to one or more of the central applications programs 102 via a selected one of
the gateway nodes 308 and the hub 312. However, it is also possible that the access node 306 may
communicate directly with the hub 312. The access node 306 to hub 312 connection may be:
*       Persistent - for example, via a permanent Internet connection; or
e       Intermittent - for example, via a wireless network connection that becomes active when a mobile
        Access Node moves into range of the network.
[072]   Preferably, the access node 306 also provides a message storage function (MSF) which:
e       Stores messages received from user nodes 304 for communication to one or more of the central
        application programs 102 from one or more remote applications 100 connected to a respective
        user node UN-1, UN-2, or UN-3:
e       Stores messages received from one of the plurality of gateway nodes 308 for communication to
        one or more of the user nodes 304; and
e       Stores messages received from local access node applications (shown as ANA-IX) until a
        connection to the destination becomes available, for example, via a gateway node 308 or hub 312
        connection.
[073]   The access node 306 may also provide system management services, such as:
e       A firmware upgrade mechanism to allow all aspects of software/firmware installed on the access
        node 306 to be reliably upgraded; and
*       Node management services described below.
[074]   The access node 306 may also provide one or more of the following services:
e       Real-time message forwarding between the central applications programs 102 and their respective
        associated remote application program RA-lA, RA-1B, RA-2X, or RA-3A when the access node
        306 has simultaneous connections to one or more of the user nodes 304 and to the hub 312 (either
        directly or via the system, for example, through one of the plurality of gateway nodes 308).
e       Real-time message forwarding between remote application programs 100 that are connected to a
        respective one of the user nodes 304 when the access node 306 has a simultaneous connection to
        the respective user node UN-I or UN-2.

                                                        13
[075]    Preferably, the access node 306 controls network access rights for the system entities, such as the
user nodes 304 and the gateway nodes 308. Control of this type may be applied to attributes such as:
e        Maximum data transfer size; and
e        Priority of message delivery.
[076]    In this respect, rights may be controlled taking into account system attributes, such as:
*        An identifier assigned to the user and/or gateway nodes or a group of user nodes and/or gateway
         nodes;
e        The geographic location of the user and/or gateway nodes; and
e        Current time.
[077]    The access node 306 may receive centralised network access control instructions setting the
network access rights from the hub 312. It is possible that the access node 306 may compress data prior
to transmission, thus reducing load on the communications interfaces 316 (GRI) and/or 314 (RRI).
[078]    The gateway radio interface 316 may be implemented as a 1-way communication from the access
node 306 to the plurality of gateway nodes 308. In such an implementation, the access node 306 may use
a rateless coding scheme (for example,, Fountain codes or Raptor codes) to transmit coded packets to the
plurality of gateway nodes 308. The gateway nodes 308 will then forward the received packets to the hub
312 where they will be decoded.
[079]    SERVICE TYPE 1 RECORDER NODE (STIRN)
[080]    Embodiments of the present invention may include an STl Recorder Node (ST1RN) which
provides the following for Service Type-1:
e        Support for embodiments in which the STl receiver signal processing is performed on samples
         recorded by the node, potentially at a location away from the node;
e        Reception and recording of STI signals from the remote radio interface 314;
*        1 and/or 2-way communication with gateway terminals via the gateway radio interface 316.
         Recorded channel data may be forwarded over the gateway radio interface 316 for signal
         processing away from the node, for example, from a satellite to a central ground station, or from a
         terrestrial node to a central processing location; and
e        Time and (potentially node position) stamping of recorded samples.
[081]    The STIRN may also provide an application interface for access to system management services,
such as:

                                                         14
e         A firmware upgrade mechanism to allow aspects of the node software/firmware to be reliably
          upgraded; and
e         Node management services described below.
[082]     The STIRN may compress recorded channel data prior to transmission, thus reducing load on the
communications interface. The STIRN may include a space-based, airborne, or terrestrial entity
[083]     CENTRAL APPLICATION HUB (CAH)
[084]     The central application hub 312 provides communication services for the central applications
programs 102. The hub 312 allows the central application programs 102 to register, and provides an
application interface by which the central application programs 102 may communicate with their
associated remote application RA-1A, RA-1B, RA-2X, or RA-3A. In this respect, in the system 300
illustrated in Figure 3:
e         CA-A is associated with to RA-1A, RA-3A (for example, position tracking service);
*         CA-B is associated with RA-IB (for example, sensor network service);
e         CA-X is associated with ANA-IX and RA-2X. In this distributed case it may be that a service has
          CA-X communicating with ANA-IX and RA-2X individually, for example, a system service that
          gathers node statistics. Alternatively it may be that CA-X communicates with ANA-IX (for
          example, to upload a file) and then later ANA-IX communicates with RX-2X to allow it to
          download that file, for example, in a file transfer service; and
e         CA-Y is associated with GNA-1Y (for example, system service for gateway management).
[085]     The hub 312 may route messages to/from the access node 306 either directly, or via one or more
of the plurality of gateway nodes 308.
[086]      As shown in Figure 3, in an embodiment an interface is provided between the central application
programs 102 and the hub 312. This interface may be provided using the Internet Protocol (IP). The
interface may provide the following functions:
*         Application registration mechanism, which allows for central applications to register for
          messaging services; and
*         Message a transportation mechanism (for example, via IP, UDP or TCP).
[087]     The hub 312 may also provide the message storage function (MSF) which performs:
e         Node routing: and
e         Central application routing.

                                                       15
[088]    Further explanation of the message storing function of the hub 312 is set out below.
[089]    NODE ROUTING
[090]    In an embodiment, the hub 312 may perform node routing of message data depending on the
availability for communication of the access node 306 or the plurality of the gateway nodes 308. For
example, if the hub 312 has an active direct connection to the access node 306 (in other words, a
connection which does not require a gateway node 308, the hub 312 may route messages directly to the
access node 306. Alternatively, the hub 312 may route messages for communication to the access node
306, or for communication to a user node UN-1, UN-2, UN-3, through the access node 306, via one of the
plurality of gateway nodes GN-1, GN-2.
[091]    In some embodiments, the hub 312 may receive reports of partial transmission from a gateway
node GN-1, GN-2 or the access node 306. Based on a received report, the hub 312 may then re-allocate
the transmission of remaining message fragments which may potentially involve a different gateway node
or access node.
[092]    CENTRAL APPLICATION ROUTING
[093]    The hub 312 may perform node routing of message data which involves routing all messages
from user nodes 304 to an addressed central application program 102. In the event that an addressed
central application program 102 is not available for communication with the hub 312, the hub 312 may
store messages for communication to that central application program at a later time.
[094]    It is preferable that the hub 312 selects a message route which reduces message delivery latency.
For example, when routing a message to the access node 306 via one of the plurality of gateway nodes
308, the hub 312 may use (expected or actual) geographic information relating to the gateway nodes GN
1, GN-2 and/or access nodes in order to select the gateway node GN-1, GN-2 that is expected to be within
range of the access node 306 in the nearest time. It is possible that a similar approach may be used to
geographically route messages to user nodes 304 via a selected access node.
[095]    For the purposes of geographic routing and broadcast or multicast message transmission,
geographic "transmission regions" may be defined so that transmission regions may be specified for
individual messages. Methods for defining such transmission regions may include:
e        Boundaries specified in terms of latitude and longitude limits, for example, defining regions using
         an upper and lower corner boundary specification;

                                                       16
e        Using international country codes, allowing specification by country rather than geographic
         boundaries; and
e        Pre-defining a list of regions with a region index being assigned to each region.
[096]    In some embodiments, the hub 312 may select a transmission region to balance load across the
system 300, for example, avoiding routes through a heavily loaded gateway node when an alternate route
is available.
[097]    It is preferred that the hub 312 maintains connectivity with gateway nodes 308, and provides
centralised control and monitoring of each of the plurality of gateway nodes 308.
[098]    In some embodiments, the hub 312 also provides system services, such as:
e        Distribution of firmware/software upgrades to nodes within the system 300; and
e        Centralised server component of the remote management service described below.
[099]    It is notable that although the embodiment illustrated in Figure 3 includes a single hub 312, it is
possible that the other embodiments of the system 300 will provide multiple central application program
connection points through multiple hubs. In such embodiments, each of the plurality of gateway nodes
308 may be tasked to route to a different hub 312 based on identification of the central application. In one
embodiment, one or more central application hubs may be dedicated to system services. In another
embodiment one or more central application hubs may be limited such that they can only provide access
to user services.
[0100] NODE MANAGEMENT
[0101] As briefly explained above, each node (that is, each user node, access node and gateway node) of
the system 300 may provide node management functions which are adapted to provide a common and
consistent interface to each of the subsystems operating on a node, and which may provide mechanisms
to:
e        Obtain information about the state of node subsystems, for example, event counters and flags;
*        Provide configuration data to node subsystems; and
e        Provide control of node subsystems.
[0102] In some embodiments, remote access to node management may be provided via a remote
management service described later.
[0103] TIME AND POSITIONING SERVICES

                                                      17
[0104] In the embodiment of the system 300 depicted in Figure 3, the user nodes 304, access node 306,
and the plurality of gateway nodes 308 have access to a common timing reference through an input
interface for timing synchronisation.
[0105] It is also possible that the user nodes 304, access node 306, and the plurality gateway nodes 308
also have access to a source of position information which provides position information to node
functions.
[0106] The timing reference and position information services may also be provided externally to
applications registered with the node.
[0107] ENTITY INTERFACES
[0108] As shown in Figure 3, the system 300 provides interfaces for providing and/or managing the
communication of the message data across the system. These interfaces include:
e        Radio interfaces 314, 316; and
e        Application interface (not shown).
[0109] The role of the radio interfaces 314, 316 and the application interface is described below.
[0110] RADIO INTERFACE
[0111] The radio interfaces 314 (RRI), 316 (GRI) provide a shared physical communications medium
which may be partitioned into a number of channels. These channels may be time slots in a time division
multiple access system, frequency slots in a frequency division multiple access system, subcarriers in an
orthogonal frequency division multiple access system, or spreading sequences in a code division multiple
access system. More generally, the slots may be hybrids of any of these, where a slot corresponds to some
subset of the overall degrees of freedom of the system (including degrees of freedom resulting from the
use of multiple transmit and or receive antennas). Regardless of the underlying method of dividing the
medium into channels, we shall refer to these channels as "slots". We do not require that the slots be
orthogonal, although in many instances slots are chosen to be orthogonal.
[0 112] For the purpose of this description, a grouping of a whole number of slots shall be referred to as a
"frame". In the present case, frame dimensioning in the system 300 is determined by the access node 306.
The access node 306 preferably also controls the ratio of slots allocated to access node transmit and
receive directions within each frame.

                                                         18
[0113] Timing is synchronised throughout the system 300 via the common timing reference described
previously.
[0114] The radio interfaces 314 (RRI), 316 (GRI) may employ multiple radio channels, providing
increased bandwidth to service gateway and user nodes. The ability to add further channels (and
potentially do so post-deployment) provides a scalable radio interface. The system 300 may thus adapt its
use of channels during operation, for example, to provide a dedicated set of channels for gateway
communication, or to cater for different channel allocations on a regional basis.
[0115] As explained previously, the Service Type-2 (ST2) radio interface provides a bi-directional
remote radio interface (RRI) between the access node 306 and the user nodes 304. It may also be used to
provide a bi-directional gateway radio interface 316 (GRI) between the access node 306 and one or more
of the plurality of gateway nodes 308. Reception of data from a user node UN-1, UN-2, or UN-3 or a
gateway node GN-1 or GN-2 may be acknowledged by the access node 306, and vice versa.
[0116] ST2 medium access arbitration is preferably coordinated by the access node 306. During this
process the access node 306 preferably performs the following functions:
         1.       Allocates transmission slots within frames to user nodes, gateway nodes and access node
                  based on:
                  *      Requests for access from user nodes and gateway nodes;
                  *      Messages stored in the access node message storage function; and
                  e      The detected presence of user nodes and gateway nodes within the current access
                         node range.
         2.       Allocates packets for transmission to access node transmission slots; and
         3.       Regularly transmits announcement messages, announcing the presence of access node
                  and ST2 communication services.
[0117] During ST2 medium access arbitration a user node or gateway node preferably performs the
following:
         1.       Listens for access node announcement messages;
         2.       Announces its presence to new access nodes, and requests access to ST2 channel
                  resources if it has data to transmit; and
         3.       Notifies higher layer services when the channel state changes (active/inactive).

                                                       19
[0118] The access node announcement may also include the position of the access node. The user node
or gateway node may use this information to improve radio link quality, for example, by steering a
directional antenna toward the access node.
[0119] The remote radio interface 314 (RRI) and the gateway radio interface 316 (GRI) will now be
described in more detail.
[0120] REMOTE RADIO INTERFACE (RRI)
[0121] In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 3, the remote radio interface 314 (RRI) provides a
primary communications interface between the remotely located user nodes 304 and the access node 306.
The remote radio interface 314 (RRI) may provide multiple different radio interfaces (Physical and Link
Layer) to handle differing types of user applications.
[0122] As previously described, the Service Type-I (STI) radio interface is a unidirectional interface
providing message transfer in the direction from user node 304 to access node 306 only. It is notable that
the ST I radio interface may also include a transfer mechanism in the access node to user node direction
that is available for purposes other than message transfer.
[0123] Reception of data from a user node 304 may be acknowledged by the access node 306 using a
suitable acknowledgement process.
[0124] Transmissions from the access node 306 may also be used by the user node(s) 304 for one or
more of the following:
e        detecting the presence of the access node 306;
e        aligning user node(s) 304 transmissions in time and/or frequency, using the access node 306 as a
         reference; and
*        coordinating user node(s) 304 slot access.
[0125] The case when the STl radio interface operates without an access node 306 to user node 304, a
feedback channel allows for transmit-only implementation of the user node. In the absence of a feedback
channel, slot access may be coordinated.
[0126] STl user nodes may use position and knowledge of time of day, together with pre-programmed
knowledge of access node behaviour (for example, orbit parameters in the case of a satellite system) to
decide when to transmit. Furthermore, repeated transmission by a STI user node may be used to
implement a degree of priority or Quality of Service (QoS), where repeat rate may be changed in order to
change priority.

                                                       20
[0127] Turning now to the Service Type-2 (ST2) radio interface, the ST2 interface provides a bi
directional remote radio interface between the access node 306 and the user nodes 304, as described
above.
[0128] User services will either use the STI or ST2 based services, depending upon the user application
requirements. Application access to both STI and ST2 services may be provided by a common messaging
interface.
[0129] GATEWAY RADIO INTERFACE (GRI)
[0130] In embodiments, the gateway radio interface 316 (GRI) provides a unidirectional or bi-directional
communication link between the access node 306 and a gateway node 308 over which:
e        Messages from user nodes 304 (or from access node applications ANA-IX) may be transferred to
         the hub 312; and
e        Messages from the hub 312 may be transferred to the access node 306, to an access node
         application, or for communication to a user node UN-1, UN-2.
[0131] The specification and implementation of the gateway radio interface 316 (GRI) may be based
upon the data throughput requirements of the system 300.
[0132] The gateway radio interface 316 may be implemented using the bi-directional Service Type-2
(ST2) radio interface described above, or in the case of a satellite mounted access node, via an existing
TT&C link to the spacecraft or the Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS) File
Delivery Protocol, or via some other suitable communications mechanism which provides sufficient
resources to transport data between the gateway node and the access node, for example, a C-band or S
band link.
[0133] APPLICATION INTERFACE
[0134] The application interface provides the applications programs with a point of access to
communications and system management services provided by the system 300.
[0135] In embodiments, the application interface provides a mechanism by which the remote and central
application programs, and possibly access node application programs and /or gateway node application
programs if provided, register with the communications system 300, in order to use services. Registration
informs functional entities that the application is present and may therefore accept delivery of messages.
The application interface may also provide a mechanism through which the messages may be transported
to/from the applications.

                                                       21
[0136] Examples of the application of an application interface include:
*        Remote applications 100 may use the application interface provided by their respective user
         nodes 304 hosting or in communication with the remote application;
e        Access node applications (for example, ANA-iX) may use the application interface provided by
         the respective access node (for example, AN-1) hosting or in communication with the access node
         application;
e        Gateway node applications may use the application interface provided by the gateway node
         hosting or in communication with the gateway node applications; and
e        Central applications may use the application interface provided by the hub 312.
[0137] In addition to the functionality provided for user services, system services may be given access to
system functions such as those provided for node management.
[0138] APPLICATION PROGRAMS
[0139] Application programs may be either system level or user application programs which utilise the
system or user services. Such system or user services may utilise the communication system services. In
some embodiments, an application program may be implemented on the same device as the functional
network entity, or on a different physical device to which it has a connection. This connection may be
provided via some network, such as a wired or wireless local area connection, or via the internet. It is
preferred that application programs be controlled and/or re-programmed via the communications system
300.
[0140] REMOTE APPLICATION PROGRAMS (RA)
[0141] Each remote application program registers with a respective user node 304, and may
communicate with its associated central application program 102 via the communication services of the
user node UN-1, UN-2, or UN-3with which it has registered. Once so registered, the remote application
100 accesses services provided by the user node UN-1, UN-2, or UN-3, via user node's application
interface.
[0142] By way of an example, a remote application may include a remote sensing application that
performs the following functions:
*        Measures environmental parameters, for example, temperature, and sends this information along
         with the user node position and time, to its corresponding central application; and
*        Receives control information from its corresponding central application, for example, to change
         the time of day at which measurements are recorded.

                                                      22
[0143] Note that the first function, that is, the measurement of environmental parameters, may be
provided via the STI and ST2 services. On the other hand, the second function, that is, receiving control
information, requires message delivery from central application to the remote application and thus the
bidirectional ST2 service.
[0144] CENTRAL APPLICATION PROGRAMS
[0145] Each central application program 102 may communicate with one or more of the remote
application programs 100, the access node 306, or one or more of the plurality of gateway nodes 308 by
sending and receiving messages via the hub 312 using services provided by the hub 312 via its
application interface.
[0146] In terms of an example central application program corresponding to the example remote sensing
remote application program described above, the central application program may:
*        Collate and process messages received from the remote application and then deliver a summary
         to users;
e        Allow end users to send commands to control the operation of the remote application.
[0147] ACCESS AND GATEWAY NODE APPLICATION PROGRAMS
[0148] In some embodiments, access node application programs (for example, ANA-1X) and gateway
node application programs (for example, GNA-IY) are provided. These application programs may offer
the potential for provision of additional services beyond message store-and-forward, by allowing on
board data processing and decision making at these gateway and access nodes respectively. These
application programs may access services via the respective application interface.
[0149] An access node application program may provide a file transfer service that:
e        Allows a file to be received from the hub 312 and stored at the access node 306, potentially across
         several time separated connections;
e        Manages the distribution of the file to one user node UN-1, UN-2, or UN-3 (via unicast) or
         several user nodes (via multicast or broadcast); and
e        Deletes the file at the access node upon receiving verification from the recipient user node that
         the file was received intact.
[0150] SYSTEM APPLICATION PROGRAMS

                                                      23
[0151] The concept of central and remote application programs also extends to the operation of the
system 300. For example, some higher-level services provided by the system 300 may be provided by
system application programs which operate on the nodes of the system. These system services may
include, for example:
e        Firmware upgrade service (FWUS); and
*        Remote management service (RMS).
[0152] In some circumstances, a system application program may be given priority over user
applications when accessing the communications system 300. Further explanation of the firmware
upgrade service and the remote management service is set out below.
[0153] FIRMWARE UPGRADE SERVICE
[0154] The Firmware Upgrade Service may provide a mechanism by which firmware operating on
system nodes (304, 306, 308) or devices connected to these nodes may be upgraded in the field via the
service. The service may provide a mechanism for:
*        Transmitting firmware upgrade data to target node(s), either using broadcast, multicast or unicast
         transmissions;
e        Coordinated control and scheduling of the deployment of firmware upgrades;
e        A file transfer service (FTS), as described above.
[0155] The firmware upgrade service may be implemented with a central firmware upgrade server
application responsible for disseminating firmware upgrade data to remote system nodes. A
corresponding client application at the nodes receives firmware data and command/control data.
[0156] REMOTE MANAGEMENT SERVICE
[0157] The remote management service may allow for the remote control and monitoring of nodes
within the system 300, providing remote access to node management functionality. Is it possible that a
central monitor and control server application, connected to the system 300 via the hub 312, may examine
the status of system nodes, and send configuration and/or control data to system nodes. In this respect,
each node may run a client application which is responsible for executing status or configuration change
requests received.
[0158] AUTHENTICATION AND SECURITY SERVICES

                                                         24
[0159] It is preferred that the system nodes (that is, the user nodes, access nodes and gateway nodes)
include an authentication and security mechanism to employ security mechanism at several levels within
the system 300.
[0160] For example, embodiments of the present invention may provide an authentication mechanism to
verify the identity of nodes within the system. In some embodiments, an authentication mechanism is
used to ensure that, firstly, at a link level, only authorised nodes (in particular user nodes and gateway
nodes) may obtain access to the remote radio interface 314 (RRI) and/or the gateway radio interface 316
and, secondly, at a service level, that the authenticity of a message can be verified (a guarantee that the
message originated at the stated source node, and was not tampered within transit).
[0161] In some embodiments, an encryption mechanism may be provided to ensure privacy of
communications. For example, at a link level this would provide privacy over the air-interface (that is, the
RRI or GRI) between nodes, or at the service level, this would provide privacy of end-to-end message
communication, between RAs and CAs.
[0162] LINK AUTHENTICATION SERVICES
[0163] Link-level authentication may employ a public key authentication scheme to provide an
assurance to both communicating nodes that each is trusted by the system central Certificate Authority.
Signed public keys would be exchanged in the RRI and/or GRI channel access mechanism, allowing
either node to generate signatures during the link communication session.
[0164] LINK ENCRYPTION SERVICES
[0165] Link-level encryption may be achieved by several means. Two options include:
e        Use asymmetric public/private key encryption mechanisms; and
e        Use a symmetric cypher with an appropriately generated session key shared via a secure
         mechanism between the two nodes at session establishment.
[0166] MESSAGE AUTHENTICATION SERVICES
[0167] Systems according to embodiments of the present invention may provide for authentication of
messages within the system 300. Such authentication may be achieved using, for example, an algorithm
which generates a Message Authentication Code, which employs either an appropriately derived shared
secret between the message-originating node and destination central application, or a set of public and
private keys (asymmetric digital signature scheme).

                                                      25
[0168] Authentication systems often require unique nonce values to be generated. Nonce values may be
generated using the system time, which is guaranteed to produce a stream of unique values. Duplicate
nonces may be avoided by limiting the rate at which messages are generated, so that all messages have a
unique time-stamp. Alternatively a mechanism to extend nonces for messages generated with the same
time-stamp may be employed.
[0169] Messages transported using STI or ST2 services may use the same authentication mechanism,
providing interoperability between the two services.
[0170] KEY MANAGEMENT SERVICES
[0171] In some embodiments, a public key signature system is used to provide a primary means of
authentication within the system 300. In such a case, all nodes and central applications shall be assigned
unique public and private key pairs.
[0172] A system wide trusted Certificate Authority may issue and sign keys, allowing for efficient key
verification by nodes that deal with large numbers of node interactions (for example, ANs communicating
with a large population of UNs), without requiring the distribution of large numbers of keys within the
system.
[0173] PROTOCOL STACK
[0174] Turning now to Figure 12, there is shown a protocol stack structure suitable for use with an
embodiment of the present invention. As shown, in a preferred embodiment, communication system
functionality is distributed across a protocol stack 1200. As is shown in in Figure 12, the protocol stack
1200 includes plural protocol layers, namely, a Physical Layer (PHY) 1202, a Medium Access Control
layer (MAC) 1204, a Message Networking Layer (MNL) 1206 and an Application Layer 1208.
[0175] The Physical layer (PHY) 1202 determines how bits are physically transmitted on a radio
channel. This includes determining, for example, bit ordering, modulation, channel coding,
synchronisation and detection mechanisms.
[0176] The Medium Access Control layer (MAC) 1204, also referred to as the Link Layer, determines
how access to the radio channel is organised and controlled. This includes, for example, protocols for
error detection and data re-transmission, session establishment and channel organisation and sharing
amongst multiple users.

                                                       26
[0177] The Message Networking Layer (MNL) 1206 determines how data is transported between
different logical entities in order to provide end-to-end communication service between remote and
central applications in the system.
[0178] The Application Layer 1204 provides an application interface through which application
programs may access communications and system management services.
[0179] The Physical Layer (PHY) 1202, Medium Access Control layer (MAC) 1204, Message
Networking Layer (MNL) 1206 and Application Layer 1206 will now be described in more detail.
[0180] PHYSICAL LAYER (PHY)
[0181] The Physical Layer (PHY) 1202 implements the physical communications link between user
nodes 304 and the access node 306 (a component of the RRI), and between gateway nodes 308 and the
access node 306 (a component of the GRI). This implements the STI and ST2 service waveforms. In the
preferred embodiment all communication in the system is packet based.
[0182] PHY ELEMENTS
[0183] The PPDU (PHY Protocol Delivery Unit) is the structure of the PHY packet, as it is transmitted
on the radio interface. It includes notional guard periods, synchronisation and training sequences, FEC
encoding and data symbols.
[0184] The PSDU (PHY Service Delivery Unit) is the user data portion of the PPDU. This is the higher
layer protocol data that is transported within the PPDU packet. The PSDU contains the Medium Access
Control Layer packet (or MPDU, Medium Access Control layer Protocol Delivery Unit).
[0185] STI-PHY
[0186] The STI-PHY provides a unidirectional transmission service. In an embodiment, all PPDU
packets are transmitted time-synchronised to GPS time (see Medium Access Control Layer below).
[0187] In an embodiment, the STI-PHY provides the following functions:
e        PSDU transmit (for user nodes);
e        Multi-user PSDU receiver (either implemented in the AN, or as an offline service, for example,
         using samples recorded by the STIRN);
*        Measurement and reporting of channel parameters to upper management layers (for example,
         MAC Management), including:

                                                      27
              o  Number of users detected; and
              o  Per-user channel parameters such as timing offset, frequency offset, rate of change of
                 frequency offset, and SNR.
[0188] A suitable STI Physical Layer is described in Australian Patent Application No 201303163, the
entire contents of which are herein incorporated by this reference.
[0189] ST2-PHY
[0190] The ST2-PHY provides a 2-way communication service between user nodes/gateway nodes and
access nodes. In an embodiment, two ST2-PHY signal and packet types are employed, one for the
downlink signal, ST2-DN, and one for the uplink, ST2-UP. The ST2-UP uplink and the ST2-DN
downlink may operate on the same channel or on different channels. The system may also operate in a
time-division duplex (TDD) or frequency-division duplex (FDD) manner.
[0191] In an embodiment, all transmissions are time-synchronised with GPS time.
[0192] Access to a channel may be coordinated by the access node, and frequency-synchronised to the
access node's carrier frequency. The ST2-UP and ST2-DN signalling schemes operate together in order to
synchronise ST2-UP transmissions with an ST2-UP receiver, which may be located, for example, in a
satellite.
[0193] Alternatively, the system nodes may use an alternate access mechanism to communicate directly
in the absence of coordination from an access node. For example, user (or gateway) nodes may access a
channel using methods known to those skilled in the art, such as carrier sense multiple access (CSMA), or
self organising time division multiple access (SOTDMA). Such nodes may also continue to sense for the
presence of an access node. Upon detecting transmissions from an access node the nodes then switch
their operation such that their channel access is access node coordinated. Once the access node is no
longer detected the nodes may revert to their alternate access mechanism.
[0194] The ST2-PHY may provide the following functions, for both the ST2-UP and ST2-DN signalling
schemes:
e         PSDU transmit and receive; and
e         Measurement and reporting of channel parameters to upper management layers (for example,
          MAC Management) such as timing offset, frequency offset, rate of change of frequency offset,
          and SNR.
[0195] MEDIUM ACCESS CONTROL LAYER

                                                    28
[0196] In an embodiment, the Medium Access Control Layer (MAC) 1204 provides mechanisms by
which access to the shared radio resource may be managed between the system nodes, and a means to
transmit data between nodes within the system from user nodes/gateway nodes to access nodes, and vice
versa.
[0197] The MAC may provide the following functionality:
e       A common addressing scheme to uniquely identify nodes within the system;
e       Packet transfer services between user nodes/gate way nodes to access nodes;
e       Coordination of use of one or more radio channels by the system, including:
        a.     Frame timing reference;
        b.     Frame timing and access rules enforcement;
        c.     Time Division Multiplexing allocation and management; and
        d.     Multiple channel operation management.
[0198] DATA SERVICES
[0199] The MAC may provide the following data services:
e       STI unacknowledged small message service (UMS) and acknowledged small message service
        (AMS), as follows:
        a.     For small payload transmissions, for example, containing position and sensor data;
        b.     Transmitted using the STI access mechanism; and
        c.     Maximum size limited by the STI-PHY PSDU transmission size.
e       ST2 unacknowledged message service (UMS)
        a.     Transmission of small to large payloads without confirmation of delivery.
*       ST2 acknowledged message service (AMS)
        a.     Transmission of small to large payloads.
        b.     Transmission of messages where notification of delivery is important.
        c.     Provides acknowledgement response to higher layer.
*       Protocol multiplexing, allowing multiple protocols to operate over the service.
[0200] MEDIUM ACCESS
[0201] The Medium Access Control scheme may include a slotted, semi-scheduled TDMA scheme. All
nodes in the system are preferably time-synchronised via the GPS system.

                                                      29
[0202] The MAC layer may be position aware, and thus able to use user node and/or access node
position data to aid resource allocation decisions, using techniques such as those described in described in
International Patent Application No PCT/AU2013/000895.
[0203] In one embodiment, the system employs the following radio channel resources:
e        RCI (Radio Channel 1). A radio channel which is used for STI burst transmissions from user
         nodes.
         a.      Uncoordinated Time and Frequency, Slotted-ALOHA with multi-user detection.
*        RC2 (Radio Channel 2). A radio channel which is used for ST2 communications between user
         nodes/gateway nodes and an access node.
         a.      Centrally coordinated slotted-TDMA. The radio channel is shared between the access
                 node and user nodes/gateway nodes in a time/frequency-division multiple-access manner,
                 under control of the access node.
[0204] Another embodiment of the system may be extended to support operation on multiple additional
radio channels, subject to access nodes and user node/gateway node radio capabilities, and the regulatory
environment.
[0205] In a preferred embodiment, all transmissions of STI and ST2 operating modes are aligned to
frame and slot timing of the system. The concept of a frame is used to allow for the definition of
transmission slots within the system. In a preferred embodiment:
e        A frame has duration which is an integral fraction of 60 seconds, and is synchronised to the UTC
         minute roll-over (for example, 4 seconds); and
e        Frame timing is based on slots having a duration which is a multiple of an integer number of
         symbol periods.
[0206] In another embodiment each PHY has a slot period which is equivalent to the duration of one
fixed-length packet transmission interval, including guard periods.
[0207] STI ACCESS METHOD
[0208] In an embodiment the STI access method employs an uncoordinated slotted ALOHA scheme.
User terminals transmit packets of a fixed size and commence transmission on an STI slot boundary.
[0209] User terminals may access the channel using techniques described in International Patent
Application No PCT/AU2013/000895.

                                                      30
[0210] In the case of satellite reception, due to propagation delay and the motion of the satellite, packets
received at the access node may vary in timing offset and frequency offset. In the preferred embodiment
ST 1 packet transmissions will include sufficient unused guard time to allow for variation in propagation
delay.
[0211] Synchronised slot times for the ST I service allow the timing of STI transmissions received at the
access node to be constrained. This is advantageous for the multi-user signal processing of multiple
overlapping packets as it prevents overlap between slots.
[0212] ST2 ACCESS METHOD
[0213] In the preferred embodiment the ST2 Access Method employs a TDMA access scheme to
coordinate access to the channel during a frame period.
[0214] The Medium Access Control function operating in the access node transmits downlink TDM slot
allocation information in each frame period (for the following frame period). It also transmits uplink slot
allocation information in each frame period. User nodes/gateway nodes may request further transmit slots
in packets they send to the access node.
[0215] A portion of the uplink frame period is reserved for slotted-ALOHA access to allow new
UNs/GNs to request initial access to the channel. Requests may collide, resulting in lost requests. These
will be re-tried by the user nodes/gateway nodes in a later frame.
[0216] In the preferred embodiment TDMA frame timing is referenced with respect to UTC time at the
access node, and transmissions from user nodes/gateway nodes to the access node include pre
compensation for the effects of frequency and timing offset. In the preferred embodiment these
parameters are estimated by each UN based upon reception of packets from the access node via the ST2
DN downlink.
[0217] In the preferred embodiment the access node synchronises its transmissions with UTC time only.
The UN ST2-DN receiver then estimates and compensates for channel effects such as carrier frequency
offset, and timing offset.
[0218] MULTIPLE CHANNEL OPERATION
[0219] In one embodiment the system supports multiple channel operation, providing a mechanism for
channel frequency agility, and also the possibility for operation on multiple channels concurrently. Multi-

                                                      31
channel operation also allows the system to be implemented in a single channel operating mode, where
the same radio channel is used for both ST2-UP and ST2-DN links.
[0220] When an access node allocates transmission slots to a user node or gateway node, it also
identifies the channel on which the slots have been allocated.
*        All channels available for operation are identified by a unique channel number; and
e        A channel number to channel frequency map instructs user nodes which frequency is to be used
         for each given channel number. The map may be pre-loaded into the user nodes or announced by
         the access node.
[0221] IDENTIFICATION AND ADDRESSING
[0222] In an embodiment all logical nodes within the system are assigned a Node Unique ID (NUID)
which allows them to be unambiguously identified within the system. All transmissions by devices within
the system include their NUID. The NUID may also be used to identify the destination of messages in the
system.
[0223] In one preferred embodiment the NUID length is 48 bits.
[0224] LINK LEVEL AUTHENTICATION
[0225] In an embodiment, system authentication mechanisms prevent unauthorised access to the radio
channel. Authentication within the Medium Access Control layer ensures that only those nodes with the
appropriate credentials have access to communication services.
[0226] A user/gateway node authentication mechanism proves user node/gateway node eligibility for
access to the access node with which they are trying to operate. In an embodiment the channel
reservation system employs a strong authentication method.
[0227] In an embodiment authentication operates in both directions, so that user nodes and gateway
nodes ensure they are communicating with an authorised access node before initiating data transport.
[0228] MESSAGE NETWORKING LAYER
[0229] The Message Networking Layer (MNL) 1206 provides networking and transport mechanisms for
transporting user messages across multiple link layers between a source and a destination. The MNL may
provide the following functionality:
*   A Message Transport function, providing network layer protocols for message transport, which:

                                                       32
             a.   Provides an interface to the Application Layer.
              b.  Provides an interface to the MAC, determining how the network layer protocols operate
                  over the link layer interface (MAC).
             c.   In an embodiment an acknowledged delivery service is provided, where applications are
                  notified of successful delivery via the network layer interface. Note that these
                  acknowledgements could be significantly delayed depending upon the remote location of
                  the applications.
e   A Message Networking function, providing a store and forward mechanism:
             a.   Routing (including geographic routing) and addressing
              b.  Queuing and scheduling of data for transmission
[0230] MESSAGE TRANSPORT FUNCTION
[0231] In an embodiment of the present invention, the Message Transport function provides:
e        A small message service, which maps directly to single link layer packet unacknowledged
         message service (UMS) and acknowledged message service (AMS).
*        A large object transport service for transmitting large data objects, such as firmware upgrade,
         images, etc.
             a.   Service uses either the AMS or UMS and provides suitable fragmentation, re-assembly
                  and re-transmission functions.
             b.   Broadcast/multicast, for example, for transmission of bulk firmware upgrade images to
                  devices in the field.
             c.   Unicast
                         -   Transmission of large data objects from remote sensor applications to
                             corresponding central applications connected to the CAH.
                         -   Transmission of large data objects to a specific user node and application, for
                             example, for single device firmware or configuration upgrade.
*        Broadcast or multicast of large objects - whole or fragments of large objects will be stored on
         access node. In this case the central application sends an object to the CAH, and the CAH
         transmits it to the access node. The access node then transmits to other nodes using appropriate
         rules to determine when and where to transmit, for example, based on geographic routing. When
         transmission has completed, the object is removed.
e        Geographic routing, including management of messages sent and the geographic areas in which
         they were sent.
[0232] In an embodiment, data transfer sessions between the access node and user nodes/gateway nodes
will include exchange of position information, allowing the access node message transport function to

                                                       33
make informed decisions about when to schedule messages for transmission to individual or groups of
nodes.
[0233] MESSAGE NETWORKING FUNCTION
[0234] In the preferred embodiment a Message Networking function is responsible for routing and
queuing messages which are in-transit through the system, including the following.
*       Routing of inbound messages to appropriate queues per destination, including:
             a.  Messages from user nodes routed to the CAH.
             b. Messages from CAH may be routed to any node (gateway node, access node, and
                 typically user nodes).
e       Queuing of messages, based on quality of service (QoS) and/or user priority status, including:
             a.  User Node queues, for all messages provided by gateway nodes destined for user nodes.
             b. Gateway Node queues, for messages from user nodes destined for the CAH.
             c.  Broadcast and multi-cast transmission queues
             d. Geographic broadcast queues.
*       Storing messages in queues until they are able to be delivered (or they expire due to age).
*       Delivery to local applications.
[0235] MESSAGE LEVEL SECURITY
[0236] In an embodiment, authentication is employed for transmitted data, allowing the integrity of
received data to be verified. Authentication is provided by a sufficiently robust and reliable digital
signature mechanism. Authentication of messages provided at the application-to-application interface
ensures that the receiving application can trust that the transmitting application did indeed transmit the
message, and that the message has not been compromised.
[0237] In another embodiment the data encryption is provided as an integrated component of the
messaging service.
[0238] APPLICATION LAYER
[0239] In an embodiment the Application Layer 1208 provides an application interface mechanism
through which application programs can register with the communications system and then access
communications and system management services.
[0240] In another embodiment the Application Layer 1208 provides an interface to third party protocol
stacks (or stack components) that may reside between the communications system and the application

                                                        34
program. In this case the application layer may implement an interface that enables system access to
application programs designed to communicate via the third party protocol. Third party protocols may
include, for example, industry standard protocols such as the Distributed Network Protocol (DNP3) and
Modbus.
[0241] SYSTEM ENTITIES
[0242] The functional network entities described above may be implemented within the physical system
entities described in this section. The entities described in this section may be implemented using fixed or
reconfigurable architectures, such as software defined radios (SDR). In this respect, an SDR type
implementation may allow further benefits, such as, on-board processing, which may lead to
improvements for sensing, automation and control not possible with conventional systems. Further, an
SDR may be remotely configured or updated, which may allow lower cost bug fixes, upgrades or
optimisation. These features are expected to be particularly advantageous in implementations in which
one or more system entities are remotely deployed, such as space-based systems.
[0243] Having generally described the role and operation of the system entities of an embodiment of the
system, the description will now turn to the functional architecture of those entities. It is to be noted that
the description that follows refers to functional views of the system entities which omit details regarding
power supply. It is assumed that the entities are appropriately powered, either via mains supply and/or
battery and/or solar power.
[0244] NODE BASED SYSTEM ENTITIES
[0245] Figure 4 is a generic functional block diagram for a node based system entity 400. In the present
case, the node based system entities include:
*        The user node (UN), which may be implemented within user terminal (UT) equipment;
*        The gateway node (GN), which may be implemented within gateway terminal (GT) equipment;
         and
e        The access node (AN), which may be implemented within any system entity that is selected to
         provide a point of access into the system 300 (ref. Figure 3).
[0246] Examples of a system entity which may provide a point of access into the system 300 include:
e        Satellite payload in the case of a satellite communications system;
e        Cellular Base station; or
e        Wireless access point.

                                                       35
[0247] Figure 4 depicts a node including single antenna radio interface 402. However, it is to be noted
that the number of antennas and their configuration will depend upon the radio implementation, and that
the architecture also supports the use of multiple antennas.
[0248] As shown in Figure 4, the node entity 400 includes a node 404, a GPS receiver 406, providing
time and position information to the node 404, a communications interface 408 (shown here as a
IP/Ethernet interface), providing external connectivity to the node 404 and applications, and an
application environment 410.
[0249] The application environment 410 may be used to execute system applications. It may also be
configured to allow users to execute applications on the entity, rather than connecting via the
communications interface 408. The environment provided to a user may be implemented in an abstract
manner that separates it from core functionality of the entity thus protecting critical functions such as
node operation in the event of application failure, for example, via one or more virtual machines.
[0250] The node entity 400 may also implement additional features, such as a user interface, further
input/output interfaces (for example, USB. RS-232, CAN, or other satellite system bus interface), and an
Ethernet switch.
[0251] The node entity 400 may be implemented as a generic device, for example, a generic user
terminal that allows users to connect external equipment. Alternatively, the node entity 400 may be a
custom implementation addressing specific requirements, for example, on power, form factor, or cost.
[0252] Gateway terminal node entities may be implemented using a low cost architecture, and may have
a similar architecture to that used for user terminal node entities. In this respect, low gateway terminal
implementation cost may present an opportunity to deploy a large number of gateway terminals. A
geographically disperse set of gateway terminals will provide reduced data latency between central
applications and remote terminals, and reduce the storage requirements of the access nodes in the system
300 (ref. Figure 3).
[0253]    Turning now to Figure 5 there is shown a functional block diagram for a STIRN based system
entity 500 which implements an ST1 recorder node, as described above. As shown, the illustrated STl
recorder node 500 includes a GPS receiver 502, providing time and position information to the node 500.
The node 500 may also include a communications interface 504 (shown as an IP/Ethernet interface)
providing external connectivity to the Node and Applications, and an application environment 506, as
described above. Further input/output interfaces such as USB, RS-232, CAN, or other satellite system bus
interface may also be provided. A user interface may also be provided.

                                                      36
[0254] COMPOSITE SYSTEM ENTITIES
[0255] In some embodiments, composite system entities may be provided which combine the
functionality provided by one or more nodes. For simplicity, composite system entities are described here
in terms of implementing multiple nodes. However, the implementation may exploit common features of
the nodes in order to reduce complexity. For example, a single time and position service may be shared
between two nodes within the same system entity.
[0256] In some embodiments a multi-mode gateway/access terminal (GAT) is provided which includes
both gateway node and access node functionality in a terminal entity. A multi-mode gateway/access
terminal may be terrestrially located, airborne, or space-based. A multi-mode gateway/access terminal
may be located at a fixed location or be mobile, for example, on-board a vehicle, vessel, aircraft or
spacecraft.
[0257] As described for the case of the gateway and access nodes, availability of a multi-mode
gateway/access terminal connection to the hub 312 may be persistent or intermittent.
[0258] In one embodiment, a multi-mode gateway/access terminal may switch modes between providing
access node functionality and gateway node functionality. Mode switching may be controlled by the
multi-mode gateway/access terminal having knowledge of the location of other access nodes within the
system 300 (for example, provided as by the hub 312), and thus making a decision on when to enable and
disable the access mode of operation. In some instances, switching may be triggered by centralised mode
control instructions initiated from the hub 312.
[0259] A multi-mode gateway/access terminal may detect the presence of a second access node, for
example, by periodically listening for announcements on the radio interface. An access node may then use
this knowledge to trigger the mode switch between access node 306 (Ref. Figure 3) to gateway node 308
(ref. Figure 3). If the multi-mode gateway/access terminal switches to gateway node mode it becomes a
slave to the second access node as its master, and vice versa.
[0260] In another embodiment a multi-mode gateway/access terminal may simultaneously provide both
access node and gateway node functionality.
[0261] Upon detecting each other, multiple multi-mode gateway/access terminals may negotiate the use
of channel resources (slots) in order to co-exist and/or cooperate.
[0262] Turning now to Figure 6 there is shown a first example configuration including a multi-mode
gateway/access terminal 600 operating in a first mode. In this example, the multi-mode gateway/access

                                                      37
terminal 600 operates in an access node mode, providing communications services to user nodes 304 that
are in range via the remote radio interface 314. In the illustrated example, the multi-mode gateway/access
terminal 600 also has an active connection to the hub 312, and may use this connection to communicate
data from the user nodes 304 directly to the hub 312. The multi-mode gateway/access terminal 600 may
also communicate messages from the hub to connected user nodes 304.
[0263] In the configuration shown in Figure 6, if the multi-mode gateway/access terminal 600 does not
have an active connection to the hub 312 it stores data coming from the user nodes 304 to be transferred
to the hub 312 in the future. The multi-mode gateway/access terminal 600 may also forward previously
stored messages from the hub 312 destined for the connected user nodes 304.
[0264] Referring now to Figure 7 there is shown a second example configuration including a multi-mode
gateway/access terminal 600 operating in a second mode. In this example, the multi-mode
gateway/access terminal 600 operates in a gateway node mode, providing communications services to the
access node 306 that is in range via the gateway radio interface 316. In the illustrated example, the multi
mode gateway/access terminal 600 also has an active connection to the hub 312, and may use this to
forward data from the access node 306 directly to the hub 312. The multi-mode gateway/access terminal
600 may also forward messages from the hub 312 to the connected access node 306.
[0265] In the illustrated configuration, if the multi-mode gateway/access terminal 600 does not have an
active connection to the hub 312, it stores data coming from the access node 306 to be forwarded to the
hub 312 in the future. The multi-mode gateway/access terminal 600 may also forward previously stored
messages from the hub 312 that are destined for the access node 306, or destined for a user node (to be
forwarded by the AN in the future).
[0266] Figure 8 shows a third example configuration including a multi-mode gateway/access terminal
600 operating in a third mode which simultaneously provides access node and gateway node
functionality. The multi-mode gateway/access terminal 600 is able to provide communications services
to other access node entities (via the gateway radio interface 316) and user nodes (via the remote radio
interface 314). In the example shown, the multi-mode gateway/access terminal 600 has an active hub
connection and may use this to transfer data between the hub 312 and other connected entities.
[0267] In the configuration of the third example, as shown in Figure 8, if the multi-mode gateway/access
terminal 600 does not have an active connection to the hub 312 it stores data coming from the access node
700 to be forwarded to the hub 312 in the future. The multi-mode gateway/access terminal 600 may also
forward previously stored messages from the hub 608 that are destined for the access node 700, or
destined for user nodes 602, 604 (to be forwarded by the access node 700 in the future).

                                                       38
[0268] Turning now to Figure 9 there is shown a fourth example implementation including three multi
mode gateway/access terminals 600-1, 600-2, 600-3. In this example, the three multi-mode
gateway/access terminals 600-1, 600-2, 600-3 simultaneously provide access node and gateway node
functionality and have coordinated access to share channel resources.
[0269] Gateway/access terminal 600-3 has an active connection to the hub 312. Gateway/access terminal
600-3 to gateway/access terminal 600-2 and gateway/access terminal 600-2 to gateway/access terminal
600-1 communications are provided via the gateway radio interface 316. Gateway/access terminal 600-1
also provides communications services to user nodes 304, via the remote radio interface 314. Through
cooperative configuration of gateway/access terminals 600-1, 600-2, 600-3 it is possible to transfer data
between the hub 312 and other connected entities through message hopping.
[0270] It will be appreciated that although the example illustrated in Figure 9 includes three
gateway/access terminals 600-1, 600-2, 600-3, the configuration may be extended through the addition of
further gateway/access terminals 600.
[0271] Message hopping may also be performed across multiple gateway/access terminals 600 without
requiring simultaneous connectivity as each node may implement the earlier described message storage
function allowing it to store received messages and forward these messages at a later time. Moreover,
while Figure 9 shows the use of gateway/access terminals 600 operating in simultaneous access node and
gateway node mode, it is possible that message hopping may be performed using the access node/gateway
node mode switching gateway/access terminals described above.
[0272] Embodiments of the gateway/access terminals may provide the following benefits:
e        When operating in access mode, the gateway/access terminal can service communication
         requirements of user nodes within range. This may reduce user nodes requirements to
         communicate with a second access node when they are within its range, thus reducing load on the
         radio channel resource for the second access node;
e        When the gateway/access terminal has an active connection to the hub and is in access node mode
         it is able to provide low latency communication between the hub and the user nodes within range
         of the gateway/access terminals; and
e        The gateway/access terminals enables message hopping across entities.
[0273] Composite system entities may be constructed by including multiple nodes into any system
entity. For example, the gateway node and access node may be implemented within any system entity
that is selected to provide a point of access into the system, such as a satellite payload, cellular base

                                                       39
station, or wireless access point. In such cases, the resulting combination of the access node and gateway
node may provide the same benefits as described for the gateway access terminal.
[0274] THE CENTRAL HOST ENTITY
[0275] Figure 10 shows a functional architecture for the central host 1000 system entity. As shown, the
entity 1000 implements a central application hub functional network entity 1002, as described above, a
timing source input interface 1004 providing time (and potentially position) information, a
communications interface 1006 (shown here as an IP/Ethernet interface) providing system and external
connectivity. An optional application environment 1008 allowing for the execution of central
applications may also be provided.
[0276] The central application hub 1002 may be implemented in software running on a computing
platform that provides, for example, IP connectivity, for example, a PC or server platform. The same
platform may be used to host central applications.
[0277] The timing source input interface 1004 may source information from a GPS. In this case position
information may also be provided to the central application hub 1002. The timing source input interface
1004 may also be provided via the IP network interface, for example, coming from a time server
computer.
[0278] The central host 1000 may also implement additional features, such as a user interface, further
input/output interfaces (for example, USB, RS-232), and an Ethernet switch.
[0279] EXAMPLE IMPLEMENTATION
[0280] The following description relates to embodiments of a communications system according to the
present invention in the context of a satellite communications system.
[0281] Figure 11 shows an example scenario pertaining to a preferred embodiment of the communication
system 1100. For clarity, Figure II illustrates only a small number of system entities, applications, and
system users. The functionality of each entity is described above. System entities are shown as solid
lined boxes; functional network entities (nodes) as dashed boxes; and applications as ellipses.
[0282] In the preferred embodiment, the communications system 1100 includes one or more satellites in
Low Earth Orbit (LEO). Other orbits may also be employed, such as Medium Earth Orbit (MEO) and
Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO). Moreover, the system 1100 may include multiple satellites, having a
mixture of orbit types.

                                                     40
[0283] As will be appreciated by a skilled reader, satellites are equipped with one or more satellite
payloads (SP). In the preferred embodiment, the satellite payload is an access node based system entity,
as described above. Hence, in the embodiment illustrated in Figure 11, access node 306 is provided as
satellite payload equipment. The satellite payload equipment may also include interfaces to communicate
with the satellite system, for example, via the system bus.
[0284] In the preferred embodiment, radio interfaces 314 and 316 are provided using UHF and/or VHF
spectrum. In the illustrated example the radio interface 314 correspond to the remote radio interfaces of
the type previously described , whereas radio interface 316 corresponds to a gateway radio interface of
the type previously described. It is to be appreciated that the system 1100 may employ multiple radio
channels, and may re-assign their use during operation, as described above.
[0285] In one embodiment, radio interface uplink and downlink operations performed over the radio
interfaces 314, 316 are performed in a full-duplex mode on multiple frequencies. In another embodiment,
the uplink and downlink operation are performed on the same frequency via time division duplex. In
another embodiment, the system 1100 is flexible to allow uplink and downlink time division or frequency
division duplex operation.
[0286] The central host 1102 system entity is implemented as described above. In the preferred
embodiment a GPS is input as the timing source. Other embodiments may receive timing information
from a networked time server computer, as previously described.
[0287] As shown, the central host 1102 includes the central application hub 1104, and also provides a
system monitoring and control application 1106. In this example, the system monitoring and control
application 1106 provides the central application programs (CA) to the system node management
applications. System nodes may run node management applications, as previously described.
[0288] In the embodiment shown. each node runs the firmware upgrade service (FWUS) and remote
management service (RMS) also as described above.
[0289] In the preferred embodiment, one or more gateway terminals 1108, 1110 are connected to the
central host 1102 via a suitable communications interface which may include an Ethernet/IP connection.
In the present case, gateway terminal 1108 is connected to an electronically controlled steerable antenna
mount 1112. The gateway node 1114 of the gateway terminal 1108 determines the location of the access
node 306 from incoming access node announcement messages, and forwards this information to an
antenna steering application 1116 running on the gateway terminal 1108. The application 1116 then
extracts position information for the access node 306 and directs the antenna 1112 in order to maximise

                                                      41
link quality. In another embodiment a gateway terminal may employ one or more omnidirectional
antennas.
[0290] In other embodiments, applications may run on external devices that are connected to the gateway
terminals 1108, 1110. Connection between gateway nodes 1114, 1118 and the central application hub
1104 may not be persistent, as described above.
[0291] Gateway terminals 1108, 1110 communicate with the access node 306 via the gateway radio
interface 316. In the preferred embodiment the gateway radio interface 316 is provided by a Service
Type 2 (ST2) bi-directional radio interface. Other embodiments may provide the gateway radio interface
316 via alternate means, as described above.
[0292] The access node 306 shown in Figure 11 runs a file transfer access node application, as described
above.
[0293] User terminals 1120, 1122, 1124 communicate with the access node 306 via the remote radio
interface 314. In the preferred embodiment the remote radio interface 314 includes both a Service Type 1
(ST1) unidirectional radio interface and a Service Type 2 (ST2) bi-directional radio interface. However,
it is to be appreciated that other embodiments may provide only one of these interfaces.
[0294] Three user terminals 1120, 1122, 1124 are shown in Figure 11. User terminals 1120, 1122
communicate with a respective user device 1126, 1128, 1130. In the present case, user device 1126,
1128, 1130 to user terminals 1120, 1124 connections are provided using an Ethernet/IP communication
interface. However, other suitable communication interfaces may be employed. Suitable communication
interfaces would be well within the knowledge of a skilled addressee.
[0295] In the case of user device 1126, a remote application program on the user device 1126 is executed
to provide file transfer services, as described above, and forwards the file to the connected user terminal
1120. User device 1126 uses the ST2 service to support this service. The corresponding central
application is connected to the central application hub 1104 via the central host 1102.
[0296] User terminal 1122 allows multiple user devices 1128, 1130 to interface to user node 1132 via,
for example, an Ethernet switch. In this example, two sensor user devices ("User Device 1" and "User
Device 2") are connected, each running a remote sensing remote application as described above. User
terminal 1122 may use the ST2 service to support this application; or the STI service if feedback is not
required from the associated central application 1134 to the remote sensing remote application program
on user devices 1128, 1130. In the present case, the corresponding remote sensing central application
1134 is connected to the central application hub 1104 via the central host 1102.

                                                      42
[0297] In the illustrated example, the user terminal 1124 executes a position report remote application
1136 that allows the corresponding central application 1138 to report the position of this terminal (and
others like it) to a user ("User 3"). User terminal 1124 may use either the STI or ST2 service to support
this application.
[0298] In the preferred embodiment gateway access terminals are also deployed in regions where user
terminals are expected to be in range, either permanently or momentarily. The connection between
gateway access terminals and the central application hub 1104 may be persistent or intermittent, as
described above. Gateway access terminals may employ one or more directional or omnidirectional
antennas, or a combination of one or more directional or omnidirectional antennas. In one embodiment,
the gateway access terminal employs one or more directional antennas for the gateway radio interface
when providing gateway node functionality, and one or more onidirectional antennas for the remote
radio interface when providing access node functionality. In another embodiment the gateway access
node employs one or more omnidirectional antennas to support both remote and gateway radio interfaces.
The use of omnidirectional antennas offers potential benefits of reduced system cost, deployment and
maintenance requirements.
[0299] In another embodiment a geographically disperse set of gateway terminals and/or gateway access
terminals is deployed in order to increase the duration of connectivity between gateways and satellite
payloads, and reduce data transfer latency between the central host 1102 and other system entities.
[0300] In another embodiment, when in range of both ST2 User Terminal and Gateway Node, the
satellite may operate in two-way mode, either regenerative, or bent-pipe.
[0301] In another embodiment access node based system entities may be deployed terrestrially, or be
airborne, in order to service user terminals. The connection between access nodes and the central
application hub 1104 may be persistent or intermittent, as described above.
[0302] In the preferred embodiment system entities are implemented using fully or partially
reconfigurable devices, such as software defined radios, that are capable of supporting multiple
applications and multiple frequency bands. In other embodiments, fixed architecture devices may be
used.
[0303]    In another embodiment, the access node (which in this case is the satellite payload) is a Service
Type 1 Recorder Node (ST1RN) based system entity as described above. In this case the STl service is
implemented by receiving and recording the STl Remote Radio Interface channel using the STIRN. The
recorded channel data is then transmitted to the ground via the Gateway Radio Interface. Digital signal

                                                        43
processing of the channel data is then performed, and resulting messages are forwarded to the central
application hub 1104.
[0304] In another embodiment the satellite payload includes both the access nodes and STIRN nodes,
allowing it to process data while in orbit and/or record channel samples for ground based processing.
[0305] In another embodiment the satellite payload includes an access node and gateway node entity. In
this embodiment the satellite may be able to support message hopping, as described above for the case of
a gateway access terminal (which also implements both access node and gateway node). In this
embodiment inter-satellite-links (ISLs) may be formed. In another embodiment the GRI is implemented
to be compatible with a third party satellite service provider, thus allowing such services to be used to link
the space and ground segments of the described architecture.
[0306] The described embodiments may also include the authentication and security services as
described above.
[0307] COMPACT ANTENNA
[0308] Applications such as tracking and sensing, may require a small form factor terminal
implementation, thus requiring a compact antenna.
[0309] In a preferred embodiment the compact antenna is a coil of conductive metal having total length
equal to one quarter of the wavelength at the transmit frequency. The coil may in one embodiment be
constructed from wire of a variety of alloys but may also be of gold or other suitably conductive single
element, or in another be manufactured onto a printed circuit board using the conductive circuit track
material on the board as the antenna element.
[0310] In a preferred embodiment, the antenna is fed at an end of the antenna. The preferred feed end is
located at the centre of a coil having a spiral shape in a single plane.
[0311] In a preferred embodiment a ground plane is used that has similar area dimension to the coil
located in a plane parallel to the plane of the antenna.
[0312] During deployment (positioning of) the terminal is such that the electrically conductive surface of
the ground plane is located facing away from the intended direction of radiation. For example, in the case
of a satellite system the antenna associated with the terminal is best oriented such that the ground plane is
on the Earth side of the in orbit satellite. The flat coil antenna including the ground plane enables the
associated terminal (including the antenna) to have a compact tag-like form factor.

                                                      44
[0313] In a preferred embodiment, labelled Case-A, for a transmit frequency of 162.725MHz the length
of the coil is approximately 46 cm. The coil consists of between 1 and 4 self-enveloping loops, with side
dimensions across the substantially planar coil formation being in one embodiment approximately 4.5 cm
by 6.5 cm.
[0314] A short section of the feed portion of the antenna connects the coil, between the feed point
located generally central to the planar coil to the edge region of the planar coil. The feed portion of the
antenna runs at an angle (labelled a in figure 13) of approximately 45 degrees to the side of the planar
coil. The feed portion is separated from the conductive plane of the coil so as not to make contact with
any part or portion of the coil, as can be seen from the top view in figure 13. The feed portion is
connected between the free end of the depending part of the coil and the centre conductor of a co-axial
cable located near one of the sides of the planar coil. As described above the ground plane has similar
planar dimension to the coil and is mounted in the same plane as the coil, and connected to the shield
(outer conductor) of the coaxial cable. The co-axial cable is used to feed radio frequency signal to the
antenna.
[0315] An embodiment of the compact antenna described above is depicted in Figure 13 (front and top
down views).
[0316] In another embodiment, one end of the antenna structure begins at the centre of the coil, and the
signal feed is connected to the antenna at this point. The ground plane again has similar dimensions as the
coil. The ground plane is mounted such that the plane of the antenna and the plane of the ground plane
are parallel with a physical separation between the coil and the ground plane. The outer shield of the
coaxial cable is connected to the ground plane. A predetermined separation between the coil and ground
plane is provided, with separation distance depending upon the permittivity of the medium located
between the two planes and the frequency of operation of the antenna. In one embodiment, that of free
space, the distance may be of the order of I to 2 cm. In another embodiment the space may be used to
house components of the terminal, thus changing the permittivity. This embodiment of the compact
antenna is shown in Figure 14 (front and top down views).
[0317] In order to compare the performance of the compact antennas described above to that of some
commercial off-the-shelf monopole antennas, an experiment was conducted during which several
collocated prototype terminals were setup to transmit to a satellite in low earth orbit. Packets were
transmitted using the STI-PHY described above. The transmit frequency was 162.725 MHz and the
terminal output power was 32 mW (15 dBm). Figure 15 shows a spectrogram of the signal received at
the satellite during a single time slot of 250 ms duration. Packets were successfully received from 9
terminals, and each packet shown indicates the terminal identifier along with the received SNR

                                                      45
(measured/estimated) in dB. Terminal 02 was used with the antenna depicted in Figure 14 being a
compact antenna orientated horizontally. Terminal 03 used an antenna as depicted in Figure 13 being a
compact antenna orientated vertically. Terminal 04 also used an antenna as disclosed in Figure 13 being a
compact antenna orientated vertically, however rotated in azimuth by 90 degrees with respect to the
antenna used by Terminal 03. The other terminals used off-the-shelf monopole antennas. The test results
as illustrated in Figure 15 show that SNRs measured for packets received from the compact antennas
were similar to, or greater than, SNRs measured for the off-the-shelf monopole antennas.
[0318] The tests described were conducted in the VHF band at 162.725 MHz. The antenna design is also
expected to be applicable to other frequencies, including other VHF frequencies, and frequencies in the
UHF band. As described above the antenna may be tuned to a particular frequency through selection of
the coil length. The coil length is chosen to be equal to one quarter of the wavelength, hence it is
expected that higher frequencies will permit more compact antenna dimensions.
[0319] Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context requires otherwise, the
words "comprise" and "include" and variations such as "comprising" and "including" will be understood
to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers, but not the exclusion of any other integer or
group of integers.
[0320] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.
[0321] It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not restricted in its use to the
particular application described. Neither is the present invention restricted in its preferred embodiment
with regard to the particular elements and/or features described or depicted herein. It will be appreciated
that the invention is not limited to the embodiment or embodiments disclosed, but is capable of numerous
rearrangements, modifications and substitutions without departing from the scope of the invention.

                                                       46
CLAIMS:
1. A composite gateway node and access node apparatus comprising:
         at least one antenna,
         a gateway radio interface configured to communicate with one or more access nodes or
composite gateway node and access node apparatus;
         a remote radio interface configured to communicate with one or more user nodes or composite
gateway node and access node apparatus;
         a power supply;
         at least one processor and a memory comprising instructions to configure the apparatus to:
         exchange one or more small data messages either uni-directionally from one or more user nodes
to a central application hub, or bi-directionally to and from one or more user nodes and the central
application hub; and
         either simultaneously provide an access node and a gateway node modes, or to switch modes
between the access node mode and a gateway node mode, and in access node mode the remote radio
interface is configured to communicate with one or more user nodes to exchange the one or more small
data messages, and in gateway node mode the gateway radio interface is configured to communicate with
one or more access nodes or gateways providing the access node mode to exchange the one or more small
data messages.
2.   The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the gateway
apparatus switch modes between providing access node functionality and gateway node functionality, and
mode switching is triggered based on proximity to one or more other access nodes.
3.   The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim I or 2, wherein the
gateway apparatus switch modes between providing access node functionality and gateway node
functionality, and mode switching is triggered based on mode control instructions received from the
central application hub.
4.   The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the apparatus
is configured to obtain and/or store a location of the apparatus and the memory is configured to obtain
and store locations of other access nodes or composite gateway and access node apparatus and the
apparatus determines when to switch modes based on the stored locations.
5.   The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the apparatus
switch modes between providing access node functionality and gateway node functionality, and the
apparatus is configured to detect the presence of a second access node or a second gateway node, and
upon detection triggers mode switching, wherein if the apparatus switches to the gateway node mode it

                                                      47
becomes a slave to the second access node as its master, and if the apparatus switches to the access node
mode it becomes a master and the second gateway node becomes a slave to the apparatus.
6.   The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the apparatus
is configured to detect the presence of a second access node or a second composite gateway node and
access node apparatus. and upon detection, negotiates the use of channel resources in order to co-exist
and/or cooperate.
7.   The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein
         the small data messages are exchanged directly with the central application hub over a further
communication link provided using a further communication interface or indirectly over the gateway
radio interface, wherein the small data messages are exchanged indirectly by hopping between one or
more intervening composite gateway node and access node apparatus and/or gateway node apparatus, and
         the small data messages are exchanged with a user node either directly over the remote radio
interface or indirectly over the gateway radio interface by hopping between one or more intervening
access node, gateway node and/or composite gateway node and access node apparatus.
8.   The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the memory
comprises instructions to configure the apparatus to provide:
         a message storage function configured to:
                  store one or more small data messages destined for the central application hub when an
         active connection to the central application hub is unavailable, and to then forward the one or
         more small data messages to another gateway node, or composite gateway and access node
         apparatus when an active connection is available; and/or
                  store one or more small data messages destined for a user node when an active
         connection to the user node is unavailable, and to then forward the one or more small messages to
         the user node or to another access node, gateway node, or composite gateway and access node
         apparatus when an active connection is available.
9.   The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 7 or 8, wherein the
composite gateway node and access node apparatus is configured to obtain and/or store routing
information for each message and transmits the message to a next system entity on the route when an
active connection to the next system entity is available, wherein the next system entity is one of the user
node, access node, gateway node, or composite gateway and access node apparatus, or the central
application hub.

                                                     48
10. The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein when in
access mode the apparatus is configured to:
         store a channel data sample of a signal received via the remote radio interface;
         transmit the channel data sample over the gateway radio interface for signal processing remote
from the apparatus.
11. The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein when in
access mode the apparatus is further configured to time stamp the stored channel data sample and to
transmit either the time stamp with the stored channel data sample, or transmit the time stamp and the
composite gateway node and access node apparatus position with the stored channel data sample.
12. The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein in access
node mode transmissions to one or more gateway nodes are configured to use a rateless coding scheme to
transmit coded packets, and in gateway mode coded packets received from an access node are forwarded
to the hub for decoding.
13. The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least
one antenna is an omnidirectional antenna.
14. The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the apparatus
is a low power node having an EIRP of less than 5W.
15. The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the composite
gateway node and access node apparatus is a software defined radio.
16. The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the power
supply is a battery and/or solar powered power supply.
17. The composite gateway node and access node apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the apparatus
may be terrestrially located, airborne, or space-based.

                      <U+2736><U+2734><U+273E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735>
                               <U+2701><U+2735><U+2739>
                                     <U+2701><U+2735><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>
              <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735>
                               <U+2706><U+260E><U+260E>
                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                    <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2737>

                                       <U+2737><U+2734><U+273E>
<removed-date>
                               <U+260E><U+273B>                             <U+260E><U+260E>
                    <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>
                          <U+260E><U+2701>
                                                         <U+260E><U+273D>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+2704><U+2701>
                                            <U+2704><U+273B>
                                                 <U+2704><U+2706>
                                      <U+260E><U+273D>
                                                       <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                                     <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2738>
                                                               <U+2701><U+260E><U+260E>
                               <U+2739><U+2735><U+2739>
                                                 <U+2739><U+2701><U+2735>
              <U+2701><U+260E><U+2706>
                                                 <U+2739><U+2735><U+2704>
                                                 <U+2739><U+2735><U+2702>
                                     <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2739>

                          <U+2738><U+2734><U+273E>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+260E><U+260E>
<removed-apn>                         <U+2701><U+2735><U+2739>
                                   <U+2701><U+2735><U+2702>
                        <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273A>
              <U+260E><U+2701>         <U+273B><U+260E><U+260E>             <U+2704><U+2706>
                   <U+2704><U+2701>              <U+273B><U+2704><U+260E>
                        <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273B>

                                     <U+2739><U+2734><U+273E>
<removed-date>
                              <U+260E><U+273B>
<removed-apn>
                                                         <U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+273B><U+260E><U+260E>
                                   <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273C>
                                              <U+260E><U+273B>
                    <U+260E><U+2701>
                                                              <U+2704><U+2706>
                         <U+2704><U+2701>                        <U+273B><U+260E><U+260E>
                                   <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273D>

                            <U+273A>   <U+2734><U+273E>
              <U+273B><U+260E><U+260E><U+2732><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                     <U+273B><U+260E><U+260E><U+2732><U+2706>
                                                                   <U+273B><U+260E><U+260E><U+2732>
               <U+2704><U+273B>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2704><U+273B>
                    <U+2704><U+2701>
                <U+260E><U+2701>                                  <U+2704><U+2706>
                         <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273E>
                                                         <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+260E>
                 <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735><U+2702>
                                             <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735><U+2704>
                                             <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735><U+2702>
                                                            <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
                         <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>      <U+2735>

                                                           <U+273B><U+2734><U+273E>
<removed-date>
                                                                                              <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>
                                                                                               <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+273D>
                                    <U+260E><U+273B>
                                                    !
                                                           "
                                                                                  <U+2704><U+273B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2704><U+2704><U+2706><U+273B>
                         <U+2704><U+2704><U+2706><U+260E>                                                                  !
                                                         <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+2706>
                                       !
                                                                        ! %
                                                                                                           <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                "
                                                                                       <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2704><U+2704><U+2706><U+273D>
                                           <U+2704><U+2701>                    !
                                                    <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+273B>
                                                                          $
                                                                                                            <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
                     #
                                                    <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+273D>
                                   !
                     #
                                                         <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2706>                            &
                                                                                           '
                                                                                             #!
                                                                     <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701>                ( ! '         )
                          <U+2704><U+2704><U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2704><U+2704> <U+260E>                                               <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+273B>
                                                                                                   "
                                       !
                                                                                               #
                         <U+2704><U+2704>   <U+273B>
                                                                      <U+2704><U+2704>      <U+2701>
                                  <U+2704><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2704><U+2704>   <U+273D>
                                                        <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>

                               <U+273C><U+2734><U+273E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+273D>
                     <U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+273B>
                     <U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>
                     <U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706>
                            <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2737>

                    <U+273D>   <U+2734><U+273E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                <U+272D><U+2762>r<U+2666><U+2665>t <U+2708><U+2710><U+2761><U+2707><U+272E>
              <U+272D>t<U+2666><U+2663> <U+275E><U+2666><U+2707><U+2665> <U+2708><U+2710><U+2761><U+2707><U+272E>
               <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2738>

                                   <U+273E><U+2734><U+273E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272D>t<U+2666><U+2663> <U+275E><U+2666><U+2707><U+2665> <U+2708><U+2710><U+2761><U+2707><U+272E>              <U+272D><U+2762>r<U+2666><U+2665>t <U+2708><U+2710><U+2761><U+2707><U+272E>
                                <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2739>
                                <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273A>

