                                                        6
                                                   ABSTRACT
       The innovation herein described provides a new and more effective method of controlling and
       monitoring smoke alarms installed in residential properties. There are two proposed solutions
       for the new innovative units. Either unit would be paired to all the smoke alarms in the home
       by Radio Frequency technology and would be connected to 240v mains power supply. These
       units may be incorporated into a light switch panel or a power point panel at a conveniently
       located position within the home.
    *  A Retrofitted Internal Temporary Unit (RTUINT), may be plugged into any wall socket and can
       test or reset/hush all the installed interlinked smoke alarms by simply pressing the button on
       the front of the unit. Possible design may be seen in Figures 1 & 2.
    *  A Permanent RTU (internal / external) (RTUEXT), may be mounted on an internal wall or
       mounted externally in a lock box for remote testing of the linked smoke alarms without the
       need to gain access to the building.
       The RTUEXT may be combined with a M2M modem for remote monitoring from a central
       location via a software platform. A possible design may be seen in Figures 3, 4 & 5.
watchRTUJan18

                                                               5
Figure 1 Front view of possible design for RTUINT                                Figure 2 Back view of possible RTUINT.
Figure 3 Possible RTUEXT front view.            Figure 4 Possible RTUEXT side view.       Figure 5 Possible RTUEXT back view.
          watchRTUJan18

                                1
                           AUSTRALIA
                        Patents Act 1990
                       Innovation Patent
                           Application
              Improved Remote Testing Units for
                   Residential Smoke Alarms
               The innovation is described in the
                      following statement
watchRTUJan18

                                           2
                          Improved Remote Testing Unit for
                              Residential Smoke Alarms
                                         (RTU)
The difficulty of regular testing and, after a false alarm, of resetting/hushing smoke
alarms that are fitted to the ceiling, makes RTUs very useful devices.
Existing RTUs incorporate only battery power supply which limits the number of times a unit
may be operated before the battery is depleted. They are also limited in their application by
their fixed internal mounting and complicated switches.
The innovation herein described, through improvement in technology and electronics, has
been specially devised to provide a new, simple, cheap and more effective method of
controlling and monitoring smoke alarms installed in residential properties.
There are two proposed solutions for the new innovative units. Either unit would be paired to
all the smoke alarms on the property by Radio Frequency technology and would be connected
to 240v mains power supply. These units may be incorporated into a light switch panel or a
power point panel at a conveniently located position within the home.
      *  A Retrofitted Internal Temporary Unit (RTUINT);
The internally mounted RTUINT incorporates a plug back with one button and two status lights
on the exterior of the case. This unit may be plugged into any wall socket and can test or
reset/hush all the installed interlinked smoke alarms by simply pressing the button on the
front of the unit. Possible design may be seen in Figures 1 & 2.
watchRTUJan18

                                                     3
* A Permanent RTU (internal / external) (RTUEXT);
  The RTUEXT is permanently wired to mains power supply and provides an interface to the user
  in the form of one button and three status lights. The RTUEXT unit may be mounted on an
  internal wall or mounted externally in a lock box for remote testing of the linked smoke alarms
  without the need to gain access to the building. The test would be initiated by simply pressing
  the button on the RTUEXT. This would trigger a silent alarm, causing every paired smoke alarm
  to return a status byte to the RTUEXT. If all alarms are functioning correctly, all lights will be
  green. If a fault exists, the lights will be red, thus indicating the need for repair. The RTUEXT
  may be combined with a M2M modem for remote monitoring from a central location via a
  software platform. A possible design may be seen in Figures 3, 4 & 5.
  watchRTUJan18

                                                      4
The claims defining the innovation are as follows:
    1. A Remote Testing Unit (RTUINT or RTUEXT) for residential smoke alarms, which may be
        temporarily or permanently mounted for ease of access, interconnected with all smoke alarms
        in the home by Radio Frequency, utilizing 240v mains power supply providing continual
        operation for an indefinite period, and is operated by pressing a sole button to facilitate its
        functions of testing and resetting/hushing.
    2. An RTU as claimed in Claim 1, mounted externally (RTUEXT), would facilitate the regular
        testing of residential smoke alarms without the need to gain access to the building where the
        smoke alarms are installed.
    3.  An RTU as claimed in Claim 2, may be linked to a M2M modem to facilitate remote testing of
        linked smoke alarms via a software platform.
watchRTUJan18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
