                             ABSTRACT
  A  stud for use in the construction of steel frames for
  buildings is disclosed.   The stud 7 includes a tab 13
5  (which may be described as a tongue or an extension) at
  one end that forms a bracket that can facilitate bolting
  the stud to other framework members or an underlying
  support structure, thereby allowing load transfer through
  the stud.
                                             9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                               - 1
                              A STUD
             The present invention relates to a stud for use
   in the construction of steel frames for buildings.
 5           The present invention also relates to steel
   frames for buildings that are constructed using the stud
   of the invention as a component of the frames.
             The present invention also relates to a method of
   manufacturing the stud of the invention.
10           A steel frame for a building has to transfer
   uplift and downwards loads from the top of the frame to
   the bottom of the frame. The key load is uplift load.
   Uplift load is usually generated by wind uplift but could
   also be generated by horizontal racking forces which are
15 transferred through the bracing of the frame. Different
   levels of uplift load need to be resisted in different
   parts of the frame, with higher levels of resistance
   required at the ends of bracing and openings, such as
   doors and windows, where loads are concentrated.
20           Typically, steel frames are held onto an
   underlying support structure, such as a concrete floor
   slab, by tie-down brackets.   There are a number of
   different types of tie-down brackets on the market in
   Australia, including C-shaped brackets, L-shaped brackets,
25 and fixing straps bracing to the side of the floor slab.
   In any given situation, the selection of a tie-down
   bracket depends on a range of factors including but not
   limited to the amount of uplift force being transferred
   through the tie-down brackets.   In turn, the amount of
30 uplift force depends on factors such as where the tie-down
   brackets are placed in a wall and the amount of load being
   applied - usually wind or seismic load. Typically, tie
   down brackets with higher capacities are required where
   there are higher wind or seismic loads, larger openings in
35 the frame, or less bracing in the frame.
             The above description is not an admission of the
   common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere.
                                              9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                               - 2
              The invention replaces the current need to use
   tie-down brackets in steel frames, including in higher
   load situations.
              The invention makes it possible to provide a
 5 comparable or stronger tie down of a steel frame to an
   underlying structure than that provided by known tie-down
   brackets.
              The invention makes it possible to achieve cost
   savings in the tie-down bracket, fasteners and labour to
10 install the bracket. The invention also makes it possible
   to achieve consistent higher quality steel frame
   construction.
              In broad terms, the present invention provides a
   stud for use in the construction of steel frames for
15 buildings that includes a tab   (which may be described as a
   tongue or an extension) at one end that forms a bracket
   that can facilitate bolting the stud to other framework
   members or an underlying support structure, thereby
   allowing load transfer through the stud.
20            The present invention provides a stud which
   includes a tab at one end that forms a bracket that can
   facilitate bolting the stud to other framework members or
   an underlying support structure, thereby allowing load
   transfer through the stud, the stud including a central
25 web and two flanges extending from opposite side edges of
   the central web, the tab being an extension of the central
   web at one end of the central web and extending
   perpendicular to a plane of the central web, and the tab
   including one or more holes through which fasteners, such
30 as bolts, may be located to secure the tab and thereby the
   stud to other framework members or the underlying support
   structure.
              It can readily be appreciated that the flanges of
   the above-described stud do not extend in a longitudinal
35 direction of the stud beyond the tab.
              The stud may be C-shaped in a transverse section
   with the central web and two flanges extending from
                                               9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                               - 3
   opposite side edges of the central web and two inturned
   lips extending from the edges of the flanges.
              The width of the tab may be selected to be
   similar to, typically marginally less than, the width of a
 5 channel in a C-shaped lower plate of a steel frame or
   another framework member so that the tab can fit snugly in
   the channel.
              The stud may include the tab at both ends of the
   stud.
10            The stud may be made from steel.
              The stud may be roll-formed from steel sheet or
   strip.
              More particularly, the stud may be roll-formed
   from relatively light gauge steel sheet or strip, for
15 example less than 1.6 mm thick.
              The present invention also provides a steel frame
   for a building that includes a plurality of the above
   described studs bolted or otherwise fastened to other
   framework members or to an underlying support structure,
20 thereby allowing load transfer through the studs.
              The present invention also provides a method of
   manufacturing the above-described stud that includes                   (a)
   removing rectangular-shaped sections along both sides of a
   steel sheet or strip at one end of the sheet or strip so
25 that the remaining section of the sheet or strip at the
   end defines a tab that is narrower than an adjacent
   section of the sheet or strip from which the tab extends,
    (b) roll forming the adjacent section of the sheet or
   strip and forming a central web and two flanges extending
30 from opposite side edges of the central web, with the tab
   extending from an end of the central web as an extension
   of the central web, and (c) bending the tab out of a plane
   of the central web so that it extends perpendicular to the
   plane of the central web and forms a bracket that can
35 facilitate bolting or otherwise fastening the stud to
   other framework members or to an underlying support
   structure.
                                               9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                               - 4
             The method may include removing the rectangular
   shaped sections by notching the sheet or strip.
             The method may include punching or otherwise
   forming one or more holes through which fasteners, such as
 5 bolts, may be located to secure the tab and thereby the
   stud to the other framework members or the underlying
   support structure. This step may be carried out before or
   after roll forming step  (b).
             Bending step  (c) may be a manual step.
10           The method may include roll forming the adjacent
   section of the sheet or strip and forming a C-shape in a
   transverse section with the central web and two flanges
   extending from opposite side edges of the central web and
   two inturned lips extending from the edges of the flanges.
15           The present invention is described further by
   way of example only with reference to the accompanying
   drawings, of which:
             Figure 1 is a perspective view of one embodiment
   of a stud in accordance with the invention;
20           Figure 2 is a diagrammatic side elevation of a
   section of an embodiment of a steel frame for a wall of a
   building in accordance with the invention that includes a
   plurality of the stud shown in Figure 1;
             Figure 3 is a side view of the stud shown in
25 Figure 1 mounted to a concrete floor slab;
             Figure 4 is a perspective view of a lower section
   of the stud shown in Figure 1 mounted to a lower plate of
   a steel frame for a wall, with the tab of the stud removed
   to simplify the Figure;
30           Figure 5 is a perspective view of the lower
   section of the stud shown in Figure 1 before the tab is
   folded from an rolled-formed arrangement to form the stud;
   and
             Figure 6 is a front view of the arrangement shown
35 in Figure 5.
             With reference to Figure 2, the embodiment of a
   steel frame 3 for a wall 5 of a building, such as a
                                              9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                               -  5
   domestic house, shown in the Figure includes an assembly
   of a lower plate 3 that is mounted to an underlying
   support structure, such as a concrete floor slab             (not
   shown in Figure 2),  an upper plate 5,  a plurality of
 5 vertical wall studs 7 in accordance with one embodiment of
   the invention, and strap bracing 9.
             The lower and upper plates 3, 5 may be any
   suitable profile.   Typically, the lower and upper plates
   3, 5 are C-shaped in a transverse section with a central
10 web and two flanges extending from opposite side edges of
   the web.
             The strap bracing may be any suitable profile.
             The embodiment of the stud 7 in accordance with
   the invention shown in the Figures is roll-formed from
15 light gauge steel sheet or strip and is C-shaped in a
   transverse section with:
         (a) a central web 17,
         (b) two flanges 19 extending from opposite side edges
             of the central web 17,
20       (c) two inturned lips 25 extending from the edges of
             the flanges 19, and
         (d) a tab 13 with two pre-punched holes 15 extending
             from the central web 17 at one end of the stud 7
             perpendicularly to the central web.
25           The tab 13 forms a bracket at the lower end of
   the stud 7 that facilitates bolting or otherwise fastening
   the stud 7 to the lower plate 3 and to an underlying
   support structure, such as a concrete floor slab             (not
   shown in Figure 2),  thereby allowing load transfer through
30 the stud 7.
             More particularly, the stud 7 is formed so that
   the stud 7 can be positioned to extend vertically from the
   lower plate 3 with a lower end of the stud 7 positioned
   within a channel defined by the lower plate 3, with the
35 tab 13 seated on and contacting the central web of the
   lower plate 3 and bolted or otherwise fastened to the
   lower plate 3 via fasteners   (not shown) extending through
                                               9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                                - 6
   the holes 15 in the tab 13 into the underlying structure.
   Typically, washers 27   (see Figure 3) are used to provide
   more effective engagement of the fasteners across the
   surface of the tab 13.
 5            The stud 7 may be any suitable length, width and
   depth dimensions. A range of different length studs 7 are
   shown in the Figures.
              The positions of the studs 7 and the bracing 9
   are determined by reference to appropriate building codes
10 and having regard to requirements for openings, such as
   doorway openings 11 and window openings     (not shown in
   Figure 2).
              The applicant has carried out test work in
   relation to the stud of the invention shown by way of
15 example in the Figures and two known brackets for mounting
   studs to other framework members or underlying support
   structures.
              The purpose of the test   work was to      determine the
   loads required to pull-out the brackets and the stud from
20 an underlying structure, i.e. the tie-down capacities of
   the brackets and the studs.
              The results of the test work are set out in the
   following table.
   Tie down type   Known anchor     Known L-            Stud of the
                   bolt & washer    shaped              invention,
                                    bracket, with       with anchor
                                    anchor bolt         bolt
                                    any gauge
   Design           6.25kN          16.3kN              15.29kN
   capacity         (0.75mm)        (0.75mm)             (0.75mm)
                                                        21.53kN
                                                         (1.0mm)
                                                        30.37kN
                                                         (1.2mm)
25
              The table shows that, while the tie-down capacity
                                                9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                               -  7
   of the stud of the invention is slightly lower in 0.75mm
   thick material  (1kN - 6% lower) than that of the known L
   shaped bracket, the capacity is significantly higher in
   1.0mm, 1.2mm and thicker material.
 5           The invention was made by the applicant during
   the course of considering whether there are viable
   alternatives to tie-down brackets currently on the market
   in Australia for cyclonic regions.    The applicant tested
   the stud of the invention without any real expectations
10 about the performance of the stud.    The applicant was
   surprised by the performance of the stud of the invention
   and the finding that the stud is a viable alternative to
   the known tie-down brackets.
             The stud of the invention may be roll-formed from
15 light gauge steel sheet or strip with the tab an integral
   part of the stud.
             The roll former operation includes:
         (a) removing, for example by notching, rectangular
             shaped sections  (not shown) along both sides of
20           a steel sheet or strip at one end of the sheet
             or strip so that the remaining section of the
             sheet or strip at the end defines a tab 13 that
             is narrower than an adjacent section of the
             sheet or strip from which the tab extends,
25       (b) punching or otherwise forming the holes 15 in the
             tab 13, and
         (c) roll forming the adjacent section of the sheet or
             strip and forming   (i) the central web 17,                (ii)
             the two flanges 19 extending from opposite side
30           edges of the central web, and    (iii) the two
             inturned lips 25, with the tab 13 extending from
             an end of the central web 17 as an extension of
             the web 17 in the plane of the web 17.
             This partly-formed stud 7 is shown in Figures 5
35 and 6.
             A final step of the method involves bending the
   tab 13 out of a plane of the central web 17 so that it
                                               9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                              - 8
   extends perpendicularly to the plane of the central web
   and forms a bracket that can facilitate bolting or
   otherwise fastening the stud to other framework members or
   to an underlying support structure.
 5           It can be appreciated from the above that the
   steel frame of the invention does not require any
   additional brackets to be fastened to the stud 7 to
   install the stud 7 into the steel frame. The above test
   work shows that the stud 7 is can give a connection which
10 is comparable in terms of strength to using a bracket but
   eliminates the cost of the bracket, the fasteners to
   attach the bracket, and the labour required to attach the
   bracket.
             Many modifications may be made to the embodiments
15 of the invention described above without departing from
   the spirit and scope of the invention.
             By way of example, the invention is not confined
   to mounting studs to an underlying structure or to other
   framework members.  The stud may be used in other
20 applications. By way of example, a further opportunity is
   to use the stud at the top of walls in cyclonic conditions
   so trusses can be tied directly to studs. This provides
   direct connection between trusses and studs and provides
   very good tie down capacity for wall frames in high wind
25 areas.
             In addition, whilst the embodiment of the stud 7
   shown in the Figures includes two holes 15 in the tab 13,
   it can readily be appreciated that the invention is not so
   limited and extends to any suitable number of holes 15.
30           In addition, whilst the embodiment of the stud 7
   shown in the Figures includes a tab 13 at one end only, it
   can readily be appreciated that the invention is not so
   limited and extends to studs 7 have tabs 13 at both ends.
                                             9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                                - 9
                               CLAIMS
   1.        A  stud which includes a tab at one end that forms
   a bracket that can facilitate bolting the stud to other
 5 framework members or an underlying support structure,
   thereby allowing load transfer through the stud, the stud
   including a central web and two flanges extending from
   opposite side edges of the central web, the tab being an
   extension of the central web at one end of the central web
10 and extending perpendicular to a plane of the central web,
   and the tab including one or more holes through which
   fasteners may be located to secure the tab and thereby the
   stud to other framework members or the underlying support
   structure.
15 2.         The stud defined in claim 1 wherein the tab
   extends perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the stud.
   3.         The stud defined in claim 1 or claim 2 being C
   shaped in a transverse section with a central web and two
   flanges extending from opposite side edges of the central
20 web and two inturned lips extending from the edges of the
   flanges.
   4.         The stud defined in claim 3 wherein the width of
   the tab is less than the width of a channel in a C-shaped
   lower plate of a steel frame or another framework member
25 so that the tab can fit snugly in the channel.
   5.         The stud defined in claim 4 wherein the width of
   the tab is a similar width to the channel in the C-shaped
   lower plate of the steel frame or other framework member.
   6.         The stud defined in any one of the preceding
30 claims wherein the flanges do not extend in a longitudinal
   direction of the stud beyond the tab.
   7.         The stud defined in any one of the preceding
   claims includes the tab at both ends of the central web.
   8.         The stud defined in any one of the preceding
35 claims being made from steel.
   9.         The stud defined in any one of the preceding
   claims being roll-formed.
                                              9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                               - 10
   10.       A  steel frame for a building that includes a
   plurality of the studs defined in any one of the preceding
   claims bolted or otherwise fastened to other framework
   members or to an underlying support structure, thereby
 5 allowing load transfer through the studs.
   11.       A building that includes the steel frame defined
   in claim 10.
   12.       A method of manufacturing the stud defined in any
   one of the preceding claims that includes    (a) removing
10 rectangular-shaped sections along both sides of a steel
   sheet or strip at one end of the sheet or strip so that
   the remaining section of the sheet or strip at the end
   defines a tab that is narrower than an adjacent section of
   the sheet or strip from which the tab extends,          (b) roll
15 forming the adjacent section of the sheet or strip and
   forming a central web and two flanges extending from
   opposite side edges of the central web, with the tab
   extending from an end of the central web as an extension
   of the central web, and (c) bending the tab out of a plane
20 of the central web so that it extends perpendicular to the
   plane of the central web and forms a bracket that can
   facilitate bolting or otherwise fastening the stud to
   other framework members or to an underlying support
   structure.
25 13.        The method defined in claim 12 includes removing
   the rectangular-shaped sections by notching the sheet or
   strip.
   14.        The method defined in claim 12 or claim 13
   includes punching or otherwise forming one or more holes
30 through which fasteners may be located to secure the tab
   and thereby the stud to the other framework members or the
   underlying support structure.
   15.        The method defined in any one of claims 12 to 14
   includes roll forming the adjacent section of the sheet or
35 strip and forming a C-shape in a transverse section with
   the central web and two flanges extending from opposite
   side edges of the central web and two inturned lips
                                              9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

                             - 11
  extending from the edges of the flanges.
  16.       A stud for use in the construction of steel
  frames for buildings that includes a tab  (which may be
  described as a tongue or an extension) at one end that
5 forms a bracket that can facilitate bolting the stud to
  other framework members or an underlying support
  structure, thereby allowing load transfer through the
  stud.
                                            9654832_1 (GHMatters) P92094.AU.3 3/11/17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
