                               Abstract
                         The Ladder Hook
The present invention takes into account the shortfall in the use of ladders to access roofs
and gutter lines.
Ladders are used extensively for gutter cleaning window cleaning access to roofs for
maintenance and repairs and hundreds of other uses.
Generally existing devices demand the user ascends the ladder to fix the top of the ladder to
the gutter or the roof to make the ladder safe, this is and always has been the most
dangerous part of using the ladder.
Because the currently available equipment is either cumbersome or expensive most trades
people or DIY home users will not buy or use the inadequate and expensive equipment.
This new invention eliminates all the current resistance to using safe methods for using
ladders or entering a roof surface, this is an affordable and user friendly device which will
save lives and producer a safer environment for trade workers and DIY alike.

Hl~1
               ----
     .........
>0

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

Detailed Description of Device application.
  (a) The Ladder Hook is placed on the front surface of the fascia gutter of a building with
       external gutters.
  (b) The Ladder Hook is not suitable for gutters fitted with fixed gutter guards.
  (c) To fit the Ladder Hook the user would have an extendable pole (typically a pool
       cleaning extension pole), the user would fit the extendable pole into 5. On the
       bottom of the Ladder Hook, this would be a loose fit, so the pole could be removed
       once the Ladder Hook is in place or 5. Could have an internal thread that would
       match the thread on an extendable pole. The Ladder Hook internal surface 11. is
      covered with a rubber material (non-abrasive) to eliminate scratching or damage to
      the fascia gutter surface while the Ladder Hook is being used.
 (d) Once the Ladder Hook is fitted in place the extension pole may be removed or may
      stay in place hanging freely until used to remove the Ladder Hook.
 (e) The extension ladder may now be extended and place the 411 top thread over the
      Ladder Hook bracket 7. and rest between 7. and 3. The full weight of the ladder is
      able to be suspended by the Ladder Hook on the brackets 7.
 (f) Now the full weight of the ladder thread 10. Is in place the ladder hooks 7. Stops the
      ladder from sliding left or right. The Ladder Hook will not slip left or right because of
      the non-slip material 11. inside the device.
 (g) The ladder will be firm against the gutter 1. And will not slip or pull away from the
      gutter.
 (h) The Ladder Hook also eliminates the ladder's bottom feet from slipping on loose
      materials or slippery surfaces.

Description of drawings
Fig. 1. Gutter top edge roll
Fig. 2. Inside gutter holding plate
Fig. 3. Device main body
Fig. 4. Loading cartridge
Fig. 5. Open end of loading cartridge
Fig. 6. Welded edge of ladder holding bracket
Fig. 7. Ladder step thread holding bracket
Fig. 8. Gutter top edge roll
Fig. 9. Ladder side style
Fig. 10. Ladder step threads.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

TECHNICAL FIELD
The present invention generally relates to improvements to safely using ladders to access a
roof surface or an elevated work area.
Summary of the invention
The object of the present invention is to provide a ladder holding device that incorporates
using the fascia gutter at a property to securely fix the ladder to that fascia gutter while the
person is using the ladder is placed in a safe environment and reduces the risk of the ladder
slipping backwards or from side to side.
Currently the most devices available on the Australian market require the user to ascend
the ladder to affix the top of the ladder to the gutter or roof, there is a device that is
available to fix to the ladder before the ladder is erected but this device is expensive and
cumbersome to use, and most people choose not to use it even if it is in their tool kit.
Because this device is easy to use and install, robust in construction and affordable to buy it
will be used much more readily and provide the user with a much higher level of personal
safety.
This device will be very helpful to the trade based workers and the DIY market.

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are four pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
