                                        Abstract
   Fastener for the mechanical jointing of conveyor belts comprises a set of two
 5 plates and the two connecting elements, at that each of the plates has two
   identical through holes arranged as concave toward the inner surface of the
   plate, and each connecting element is arranged in the form of a bolt the head of
   which corresponds to the fit socket of the upper plate, at that each of the plates
   has lugs for fixing to the surface of the conveyor belt. To increase the resistance
10 of butt joint of conveyor belts on break, both plates are flat, and at the ends are
   provided with bosses in cylindrical form for compressing the conveyor belt ends
   in butt joint, at that the diameter of the bosses is larger than the width of the
   plate which also has shaped bosses for fixation with conveyor belt placed in
   circular section and by straight sections of its inner surface, at that each of the
15 plates at    circular    sections is    additionally    provided     with     holes
   arranged symmetrically       between     the profiled   bosses,    and     in   the
   bottom plate both through holes are arranged with threading for a bolt.
                                             7

      1/3
           1
6
  FIG. 1
    FIG. 2

                                                                          F16G 3/00
       FASTENER FOR MECHANICALLY LINKING CONVEYOR BELTS
          The invention      relates to conveyor transportation      equipment,   and
 5 specifically to belt conveyors, and can be used in open-pit as well as in
   underground mining operations, including coal mining operations hazardous by
   gas and dust factors.
          Well-known are the rubberized conveyor belts' fasteners containing two
   profiled plates with a single centrally positioned bolt. Such fasteners include,
10 particularly, the PWS fastener (refer to the Patent UA N2 84325, IPC E21F
    13/08, published on 10.10.2013, Bull. N9 19), and the Stoke fastener (refer to the
   Patent UA N2 23260, IPC B65G 15/30, published on 10.05.2007, Bull. N26).
          The disadvantages of such fasteners relate to the need for a longer time
   required to join the belts' ends that, this construction used at practical mining
15 industry, especially at high output producing mines, is of essential importance.
          Well-known is the conveyor belts' mechanical fastener "Vymysluvka",
   manufactured by "Beshtak" company, Poland (refer to the Patent UA N2 23260,
   IPC V65G 15/30, published on 10.05.2007, Bull. N26).      This fastener consists
   of an upper and a lower profiled plates, every plate containing two centrally
20 arranged through-holes at the profiled concave-convex oval end portions, shaped
   as sectors and joined by bolts; at that the lower profiled plate's outer surface
   bears a receiving hole to fix the head of fastener which has a locking element
   and a conically-shaped tip; the upper and lower profiled plates oval end
   portions' flanges bear cutouts which form projecting points in such a way that
25 the bottom plate profiled cutouts are located asymmetrically to those profiled in
   the upper plate.
          Thus the fastener includes two profiled clamping plates with oval ends, at
   that the rounded portion diameter is greater than the plate's middle part width.
   Each oval portion contains a central through hole. The plates are convex-shaped
30 and adjacent to the surface of conveyor belt connection joint outer covers
   (working and running) with their cutout-profiled flanges containing bosses at
   that the flanges' ends are chamfered relative to the cover bed plane. Each plate's
   oval portion-located central hole bears on the outer side a centered depression,
   i.e. so-called fit socket. Each plate's both holes are arranged on the plate's
                                            1

   longitudinal centerline. The top plate depressions include hexagonal holes
   preventing from nut spinning. The plates are compressed with bolts which heads
   seated at corresponding depressions do not protrude beyond the bottom plate's
   outer surface. When plates fixing the bolts are tightened with their nuts using a
 5 special key, the Alan wrench, whose hexagonally shaped tool enters a
   corresponding groove positioned in the bolt head center. To secure a reliable
   conveyor belt ends' connection, both fastener plates bear serration teeth
   protruding towards each other, in such a way that their sharp ends are pressed
   into the belt working and running covers' rubber when butt joint mounting. At
10 that the overlaid belt end's running cover and the underlaid belt end's working
   cover shall be removed when joint assembling prior to install the fasteners.
   Before installing fasteners of this structural design, the joined belt ends are
   perforated to arrange sockets for fixing bolts; passage. After plates tightening,
   the assemblage is finalized with breaking off the bolt's end protruding over the
15 nut face plane.
          The known design weaknesses:
          - The strength of conveyor belts' connection joints even when this
   technique applied to low resistance power belts, - up to 1250 N/mm, - is
   sufficient only to allow the joint tensile strength (exceeding 40% of the belt's
20 strength) under joints establishing for emergency repair and is never sufficient
   for a sustainable operation;
          - When multiple fasteners forming such joint, on the working cover's
   surface between these fasteners there appears projections and depressions, thus
   rendering the conveyor belt surface uneven and susceptible to cover rapid wear;
25        - The profiled plates' teeth accelerate the rubber covers' degradation;
          - Due to this fastener structural design complexity, particularly to the
   profiled plates' elaborated shape, the construction cost increases as well as its
   fabrication laboriousness;
          - Lack of reliability in fixing the nut's position at the upper plate results in
30 nut spinning around its axis, that sequentially prevents from bolt complete
   tightening;
          - The need to use four pieces when installing the fastener parts and both
   profiled plates' visual similarity increases the assemblage delay.
          The known belt fastener was selected as the closest analogue. Both this
                                              2

   closest analogue and the claimed utility model have the following common
   features:
           - structurally they comprise two profiled plates with two bolts;
           - each of these plates has two centrally positioned through-holes;
 5         - the plate's inner surface adjacent to the conveyor belt covers, bear the
   clamping elements;
           - the connecting element is shaped as a bolt, which head enters the upper
   plate's fit socket and contains a groove for screwing.
           The invention basic task encompassed to creating a strong, reliable,
10  simple and inexpensive fastener design for mechanical joining of rubber-textile
   conveyor belts, allowing to reduce the assembling time while increasing joints
    strength and maintaining the conveyor belt surface flatness within the
   connecting joint area.
           The stated problem is solved using a robust high-quality fastener PWS
15  OPTIMA for conveyor belt mechanical joining, which structure comprises a set
    of two plates and the two connecting elements, each of the plates having two
   identical through holes concave toward the plate's inner surface, and each the
   connecting element being shaped as a bolt which head corresponds to the upper
   plate's fit socket, at that each plate has projections fixing it to the conveyor belt
20  surface, and, specifically, both plates are flat and provided at their ends with the
   cylindrical embossments for joining the conveyor belt ends through connection
   joint; the embossments' diameter is larger than the width of the plate, also
   bearing the conveyor belt fixing profiled projections disposed on its inner
    surface's    circular and straight sections; the circular section of each plate is
25  additionally provided with holes arranged symmetrically the profiled bosses, and
   in the bottom plate both through holes are arranged with threading for a bolt.
           The claimed invention novelty is that both plates are flat and bear at their
   ends the cylindrical shape embossments for joining the conveyor belt ends in
   butt-joint, the embossments' diameter is greater than the width of the plate, also
30 bearing the conveyor belt fixing profiled projections disposed on its inner
    surface's    circular and straight sections; the circular section of each plate is
    additionally provided with holes arranged symmetrically between the profiles
   bosses, and the both through holes in bottom plate are provided with threading
   for a bolt.
                                              3

          Figure 1 shows the general view of PWS OPTIMA for conveyor belts
   mechanical joining.
          Figure 2 represents a lateral view of PWS OPTIMA for conveyor belts
 5 mechanical joining.
          Figure 3 represents a plan top and lateral view of the upper profiled plate.
          Figure 4 represents a plan top and lateral view of the bottom profiled
   plate.
          Figure 5 exposes the linkage between PWS OPTIMA and the conveyor
10 belt.
           The claimed PWS OPTIMA for conveyor belts mechanical joining (refer
   to fig. 1) includes two flat plates: upper 1 and bottom 2 and two connecting
   elements 3, both shaped as a bolt. Plates 1 and 2 have two centerline-arranged
   through holes 4 for the coupling element 3 (refer to figs. 2, 3) configured as a
15 bolt which head corresponds to the receiving hole 5 of the upper plate 1 (refer to
   figs. 3.4 ). The conveyor belt-facing surface of the upper and lower plates 1, 2
   bears profiled projections 6 intended for plates engagement to the conveyor belt.
   At its end portion the head of bolt 3 has a hexagon socket 7 for the cap wrench.
   The bottom plate 2 is equipped with thread 8 for tightening bolts 3 (refer to fig.
20 4). Each of the plates 1 and 2 bears additional through-holes 9, symmetrically
   arranged between the profiled protrusions 6.
                 The connection joint is assembled as follows:
   The conveyor belts' ends (refer to fig. 5), subject to connecting, are cut at an
   angle of 900 with subsequent stepwise processing, degreasing and preparation
25 for joining. Next, the plate 1 (together with bolt 3, further inserted into the
   conveyor belt opening) is overlaid onto upper belt side. On the lower conveyor
   belt side bolt 3 is screwed into the plate 2. Bolt 3 is screwed into the thread 8
   located on the plate 2. Next, bolt 3 is further screwed to tighten plates 1 and 2
   together. The similar tightening procedure is carried out with the second bolt 3.
30 Thus, all fasteners OPTIMA are installed. The bolted joint assembling is
   rounded out by breaking off the upper plate bolts' protruding ends.
          The claimed technical result consists in following: the suggested PWS
   design for conveyor belts mechanical connection allows the safe operation of the
   conveyor at its belt strength up to 1600-2000 N/mm. Through-holes 9 arranged
                                             4

   in the plates 1 and 2 allows the conveyor belt working surface penetrating
   through those holes when PWS pressed against the conveyor belt.
          The exposed amount of invention allows achieving the technical result as
   follows:
 5        - increase in the rubber conveyor belts' connection joint tensile strength;
          - decrease in the rubber conveyor belts' connection joint flatness
   distortion;
          - shortened PWS montage time, since the lower and upper plates are
   visually and by-touch easily identifiable due to their different structural
10 characteristics;
          - sustained conveyor belts joining security and maintained joint integrity
   due to the fastener's structure specificity: absence of teeth on the plate's surface;
          - provided possibility to carry out the belt's longitudinal ruptures repair.
15
                                              5

                                          Claim
    1.    The fastener for mechanical linking of conveyor belts, structurally
 5 comprising a set of two plates and the two connecting elements, each of the
   plates having two identical through holes concave toward the plate's inner
   surface, and each    connecting element being shaped as a bolt which head
   corresponds to the upper plate's fit socket, at that each plate has bosses fixing it
   to the conveyor belt surface, and characterized in that both plates are flat and
10 have at their ends the cylindrical embossments for joining the conveyor belt
   ends through connection joint; the embossments' diameter          is larger than the
   width of the plate which also has shaped bosses for fixation with conveyor belt
   placed   in circular section and by straight sections of its inner surface; the
   circular portion of each plate is additionally provided with holes arranged
15 symmetrically between the profiled bosses, and the bottom plate's both holes are
   arranged with threading for a bolt.
                                            6

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014353561, is current as of 2016-09-12 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014353561, is current as of 2016-09-12 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014353561, is current as of 2016-09-12 21:00 AEST

