                           ABSTRACT
        A gaming system is arranged to implement a game which
  is based on credit received.  A portion of the credit
5 received is allocated to a credit accumulator. The gaming
  system is arranged to play one or more feature games for
  the portion of credit accumulated.

                               - 1
          A GAME CONTROLLER, SYSTEM AND METHOD OF GAMING
   Related Applications
 5       This application is a divisional application of
   Australian application no. <removed-apn>, which, in turn, is
   a divisional of application no. 2014210654, which, in
   turn, is a divisional of application no. 2012201919,
   which, in turn, is a divisional of application no.
10 2009201031 the disclosure of each of these applications is
   incorporated herein by reference.   Most of the disclosure
   of these applications is also included herein, however,
   reference may be made to the specifications of application
   nos. <removed-apn>, 2014210654,  2012201919, 2009201031 as
15 filed to gain further understanding of the invention
   claimed herein.
   Field of the Invention
20       The present invention relates to a gaming system and
   to a method of gaming.
   Background of the Invention
25       It is  known to provide gaming systems which operate
   on the basis of player credit to play a game and make a
   return of credit to a player depending upon the outcome of
   the game.   Such gaming systems include the type which are
   arranged to randomly select and cause the display of
30 several symbols  from a predetermined set of symbols and to
   determine a game outcome,  such as a game win, based on the
   displayed symbols.   These gaming systems may commonly be
   implemented as a stepping machine provided with reels with

                                - 2
   each reel carrying several symbols of the set, or a video
   machine wherein selected symbols are displayed on virtual
   reels on a graphical display device.    Game outcomes occur
   based on symbols appearing on one or more horizontal
 5 lines, diagonal lines, or in any other pre-determined way.
   Other types of gaming systems that are played for credit
   include gaming systems arranged to play "bingo" or   "keno"
   type games, where symbols   such as numbers are selected and
   matched.   There are many other types of gaming systems
10 which are played based on player credit and which may
   return credit to a player depending on the game outcome.
          In many jurisdictions, regulations require that,   for
   credit based gaming systems,   a set proportion of credit
   entered into a gaming system must be returned to players.
15 This is termed "return to player", or "RTP".    In many
   jurisdictions, RTP is relatively high e.g. 85 to 95 per
   cent.
          It is known to provide gaming systems in the form of
   "stand alone" gaming machines e.g. Electronic Gaming
20 Machines, EGM's) which may be linked to allocate a
   proportion of the entered player credit to a "linked
   pool".   Players of the linked EGM's may play for a linked
   prize, which is based on the proportion of credit
   allocated by each EGM to the linked pool.    The overall RTP
25 is determined based on the amount returned to the player
   from a combination of EGM prizes awarded for individual
   games played on individual EGM's and also the linked
   prizes.
          Linked prizes are very popular.   A significant number
30 of operators attract people to venues by offering large
   linked prizes.   In order to fund the linked prizes, the
   venue operators will often select as lower possible RTP
   for the individual EGM's   (resulting in low prizes being

                                - 3
   awarded by the EGM's).    A problem with this  is that   the
   players tend to be attracted by the linked prize, and are
   not particularly concerned with games that may be offered
   by an individual manufacturer's EGM.     Instead, they are
 5 happy to play any EGM that offers access to the linked
   prize.   This makes it difficult   for individual
   manufacturers of EGM's to distinguish their products and
   attract players to their products.
          In venues supporting gaming systems,   it is known to
10 offer "loyalty programs", which provide incentives      for
   players to patronise a particular venue.
          It is known to provide loyalty systems which include
   linked hardware arranged to detect some form of player
   identification e.g. a magnetic card and control the
15 loyalty program from a central point e.g. a server
   arranged to monitor loyalty credits e.g. points.       Often,
   special hardware is provided to network EGM's into the
   loyalty system.    These systems are expensive and some
   venues do not have the means to adequately fund such
20 systems, particularly after considering RTP and tax
   requirements   (which in some jurisdictions can be high).
   Summary of the Invention
25      In accordance with a first aspect, the present
   invention provides a gaming machine comprising a game
   controller arranged to facilitate a play of a game on
   which a player can wager at least one credit on an outcome
   of the game, the game being arranged to provide the player
30 with an opportunity to win a   jackpot prize that is common
   to a plurality of gaming machines each of which is
   arranged to award the jackpot prize, the gaming machine
   further comprising a credit accumulator arranged to
   maintain an accumulated portion of the credit received at

   the gaming machine from the player, the game being
   arranged to provide the player with an opportunity to win
   the accumulated portion of the credit, the accumulated
   portion of the credit being unique to the gaming machine
 5 such that only the gaming machine can award the
   accumulated portion of the credit and none of the
   plurality of gaming machines can award the accumulated
   portion of the credit, the accumulated portion of the
   credit being such that it contributes to an overall return
10 to a player characteristic of the gaming machine.
        In an embodiment, the player terminal comprises a
   stand alone electronic gaming machine  (EGM).  In this
   embodiment, the EGM is associated with a credit
   accumulator for that EGM.
15      In an alternative embodiment, the player terminal is
   associated with a gaming network that may include a
   plurality of player terminals networked to a central
   system, e.g. a plurality of player "client" terminals
   networked to a central "server" terminal.   In this
20 embodiment, each player terminal is associated with a
   respective credit accumulator for that player terminal.
        Because the credit accumulator is associated with an
   individual player terminal, in at least an embodiment, the
   accumulated portion of credit can only be obtained by
25 playing the particular player terminal.   In an embodiment,
   the accumulated portion of credit can be used to pay for
   relatively high prizes, such as high value prize feature
   games.  This advantageously increases the attractiveness
   of the particular player terminal e.g. a particular type
30 of EGM that offers the accumulated portion of credit and
   one or more feature games.  In venues where a proportion
   of RTP is allocated to funding a linked prize,  such as a
   linked jackpot, gaming systems in accordance with the
   present invention are still attractive, as further prizes

                               - 5
   are available via the feature game for the stored portion
   of credit associated with the player terminal.
        In an embodiment, the accumulated portion credit is
   used for awarding prizes to the player e.g. paying prizes
 5 for the feature game.
        In an embodiment, the accumulated portion of credit is
   used for purchasing the feature games.   That is, the
   accumulated portion of credit may be used to purchase play
   of the feature game,  for example in an embodiment where
10 players are eligible to access the accumulated portion of
   credit.
        In a further embodiment, the accumulated portion of
   credit may be used for purchasing of play of the feature
   game and payment of prizes  for the feature game.
15      The gaming system may have a total RTP.   The total RTP
   is paid from game play which is not associated with a
   credit accumulator and RTP  from game play associated with
   a credit accumulator.   The overall RTP of the gaming
   system is not affected in this embodiment.
20      A further advantage of at least an embodiment of the
   invention, is the provision of  feature games which are
   funded from the accumulated portion of credit   (e.g. the
   feature games may be paid for from the accumulated portion
   of credit and/or the prizes from play of the feature games
25 may be paid for from the accumulated portion of credit),
   providing further levels of gaming which increase the
   interest of a player.
        In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to
   make available play for the accumulated portion of credit
30 only to eligible players.   In an embodiment, the gaming
   system comprises an identifying device for identifying
   eligible players.  The identifying device may comprise a
   device for identifying a token, such as a card reader for
   reading a smart card or magnetic card, a biometric device
35 for identifying eligible players via biometrics, a ticket
   reader for reading a ticket or other identifying device.

                               -  6
   In at least an embodiment this has the advantage that only
   eligible players will be able to play for the accumulated
   portion of credit.   This provides a way of attracting
   players to the player terminal.     For example, where the
 5 player terminal is an EGM, a player may enter a loyalty
   system associated with a particular brand of EGM's where
   they are eligible to play for the accumulated portion of
   credit.
        In the embodiment where only an eligible player is
10 allowed to play for the accumulated portion of credit,
   this may have the advantage of providing a relatively
   inexpensive way of a venue instituting a loyalty program.
   For example, a simple card reader may be provided to
   identify eligible players.    This may be provided by the
15 EGM manufacturer, and therefore there would be little or
   no cost to the venue operator instituting such a loyalty
   system.
        In an embodiment, the gaming system further comprises
   the player terminal.
20      In an embodiment, the gaming system includes a
   display, arranged to display a representation of play of
   the game.  In an embodiment, the game controller is
   arranged to select a plurality of symbols    from a set of
   symbols for play of the game, and to control the display
25 to display the plurality of selected symbols.     The game
   controller is also arranged to determine a game outcome
   based on the selected symbols.     In an embodiment, the
   feature game may also be based on a selection of symbols
   from a plurality of symbols.     In other embodiments, the
30 feature game may be different type of game.
        In alternative embodiments, the game controller may be
   arranged to control play of a keno or bingo type game, or
   other type of game.
        In accordance with a second aspect, the present
35 invention provides a method of gaming, comprising the
   steps of receiving credit for play of a game, accumulating

                               - 7
   a portion of the credit received, associating the
   accumulated portion of credit with a player terminal, and
   playing a feature game for the accumulated portion of
   credit.
 5      In accordance with a third aspect, the present
   invention provides a gaming system comprising at least one
   gaming machine comprising a game controller arranged to
   facilitate a play of a game on which a player can wager at
   least one credit on an outcome of the game, the game being
10 arranged to provide the player with an opportunity to win
   a jackpot prize that is common to a plurality of gaming
   machines each of which is arranged to award the jackpot
   prize, the gaming machine further comprising a credit
   accumulator arranged to maintain an accumulated portion of
15 the credit received at the gaming machine from the player,
   the game being arranged to provide the player with an
   opportunity to win the accumulated portion of the credit,
   the accumulated portion of the credit being unique to the
   gaming machine such that only the gaming machine can award
20 the accumulated portion of the credit and none of the
   other plurality of gaming machines, of the gaming system,
   can award the accumulated portion of the credit, the
   accumulated portion of the credit being such that it
   contributes to an overall return to player characteristic
25 of the gaming machine.
        In an embodiment, this has the advantage that only
   eligible players are allowed to play for the accumulated
   portion of credit.   Eligible players may belong to a
   loyalty scheme associated with the gaming system.
30      The accumulated portion of credit may be played for
   via a feature game, or may be a prize  (such as a jackpot
   prize).
        In an embodiment, the gaming system further comprises
   the player terminal.
35      In accordance with a fourth aspect, the present
   invention provides a method of gaming, comprising the

                              - 8
   steps ofreceiving credit, allowing a player to play a game
   based on the credit, accumulating a portion of the credit,
   providing an opportunity to win a jackpot prize that is
   common to a plurality of gaming machines, providing an
 5 opportunity to win the accumulated portion of the credit,
   the accumulated portion of the credit being unique to a
   player selected gaming machine, awarding a jackpot if a
   jackpot condition is met, awarding the accumulated portion
   of the credit if an award condition is reached, the
10 accumulated portion of the credit being awarded through
   the selected machine only wherein the accumulated credit
   contributes to the overall returns to a player.
        In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present
   invention provides a computer program comprising
15 instructions for controlling a computer to implement a
   gaming machine in accordance with the first aspect of the
   invention.
        In accordance with a sixth aspect, the present
   invention provides computer readable medium providing a
20 computer program in accordance with the fifth aspect of
   the invention.
        In accordance with a seventh aspect, the present
   invention provides a data signal comprising a computer
   program in accordance with the fifth aspect of the
25 invention.
        In accordance with an eighth aspect, the present
   invention provides a computer program comprising
   instructions for controlling a computer to implement a
   gaming system in accordance with the third aspect of the
30 invention.
        In accordance with a ninth aspect, the present
   invention provides a computer readable medium providing a
   computer program in accordance with the eighth aspect of
   the invention.
35      In accordance with a tenth aspect, the present
   invention provides a data signal comprising a computer

                               - 9
   program in accordance with the eight aspect of the
   invention.
         A variation on the present invention is to not have
   an accumulated portion of credit associated with a player
 5 terminal, but to have one or more feature games which may
   only be played by eligible players.   That is, the one or
   more feature games may only be played by players who
   belong to a loyalty system, for example.
         In accordance with an eleventh aspect, the present
10 invention provides a gaming system comprising a game
   controller arranged to control play of a game based on
   credit, the game controller also being arranged to control
   play of one or more feature games, and an identifier
   device for identifying an eligible player, the game
15 controller being arranged to enable play of the one or
   more feature games for eligible players.
         Eligible players may be determined in a number of
   ways.   They may be part of a loyalty system, such as a
   venue loyalty system, for example.   The loyalty system may
20 be any type of loyalty system, including a membership
   system, a system where a player obtains access to the
   feature games by purchasing other items e.g. drinks in a
   club,  for example, or other type of system.
         The one or more feature games may be available only
25 to eligible players.
         In an embodiment, the player may obtain "tokens" to
   enable them to have access to the one or more  feature
   games.   These tokens could be a membership card of a
   loyalty system, for example, or could be ticket(s) which
30 are awarded depending upon player actions e.g. purchasing
   of drinks, winning the tickets via play of other gaming
   systems,  and other ways.
         This embodiment may have the advantage that the
   players are attracted by feature games that they wish to
35 play and therefore have an incentive to become eligible
   e.g. members of loyalty systems,  so that they can play

                               - 10
   those feature games.   Alternatively, feature games may be
   awarded as prizes for operations that are associated with
   the gaming system e.g. buying drinks in a club   (receive a
   ticket to play the feature game),  spending money with an
 5 organisation, etc.
        In accordance with a twelfth aspect, the present
   invention provides a method of gaming, comprising the
   steps of playing a game, making available one or more
   feature games, identifying an eligible player and enabling
10 the eligible player to play the one or more feature games.
        In accordance with a thirteenth aspect, the present
   invention provides a computer program comprising
   instructions for controlling a computer to implement a
   gaming system in accordance with the eleventh aspect of
15 the invention.
        In accordance with a fourteenth aspect, the present
   invention provides a computer readable medium, providing a
   computer program in accordance with the thirteenth aspect
   of the invention.
20       In accordance with a fifteenth aspect, the present
   invention provides a data signal, comprising a computer
   programmer in accordance with the thirteenth aspect of the
   invention.
25 Brief Description of the Drawings
         Features and advantages of the present invention will
   become apparent  from the following description of
   embodiments thereof, by way of example only, with
30 references to the accompanying drawings, in which:
         Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of
   a gaming system;
         Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone
   gaming machine;
35       Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional

                               -  11
   components of a gaming machine;
         Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional
   components of a memory;
         Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming
 5 system;
         Figure  6 is a schematic diagram of functional
   components of a gaming system in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 7 is a representation of an example display
10 generated by a gaming system in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 8 is a schematic diagram showing further
   functional components of a gaming system in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention.
15       Figures  9, 10 and 11  are representations of example
   displays generated by a gaming system in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention;   and
         Figure 12  is a flow diagram illustrating operation of
   the gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the
20 present invention.
   Detailed Description of Embodiments
         Referring to the drawings, there is a shown a gaming
25 system arranged to implement a game which is based on
   credit received.   A portion of the credit played is
   allocated to a credit accumulator   (see Figure 8).  In one
   embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to play feature
   games for the portion of credit accumulated.    In another
30 embodiment, the accumulated credit is payable only to
   players who are eligible to play for the accumulated
   credit.  These players may be members of a loyalty scheme
   associated with the gaming system and/or a gaming venue

                                - 12
   operating the gaming system.
          The credit accumulator is associated with a gaming
   terminal, such as a stand alone electronic gaming machine
   (EGM) or a terminal associated with a remote server.     The
 5 credit accumulated is played for via the associated
   terminal.   Because a portion of the credit is accumulated,
   in embodiments it may be used to provide relatively
   attractive prizes, either as    jackpot prizes, or as prizes
   of a feature game or games.     It is therefore attractive
10 for players to play the individual terminal.     The total
   RTP for the terminal may be made up of RTP which is paid
   out for games not associated with the accumulator and RTP
   paid out from the accumulated credit.     The total "return
   to player"   (RTP) of the terminal is therefore not
15 affected.
          The gaming system can take a number of different
   forms.  In a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is
   provided wherein all or most components required for
   implementing the game are present in a player operable
20 gaming machine.
          In a second form, a distributed architecture is
   provided wherein some of the components required for
   implementing the game are present in a player operable
   gaming machine and some of the components required for
25 implementing the game are located remotely relative to the
   gaming machine.    For example, a "thick client"
   architecture may be used wherein part of the game is
   executed on a player operable gaming machine and part of
   the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming server;
30 or a "thin client"   architecture may be used wherein most
   of the game is executed remotely such as by a gaming
   server and a player operable gaming machine is used only
   to display audible and/or visible gaming information to

                              - 13
   the player and receive gaming inputs from the player.
         However, it will be understood that other
   arrangements are envisaged.  For example, an architecture
   may be provided wherein a gaming machine is networked to a
 5 gaming server and the respective functions of the gaming
   machine and the gaming server are selectively modifiable.
   For example, the gaming system may operate in stand alone
   gaming machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client"
   mode depending on the game being played, operating
10 conditions, and so on. Other variations will be apparent
   to persons skilled in the art.
         Irrespective of the form, the gaming system comprises
   several core components. At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface 50 and a game controller
15 60 as illustrated in Figure 1. The player interface is
   arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
   input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions and play the game.
20       Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54, a game play
   mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
25 instructions e.g. to place bets, and one or more speakers
   58.
         The game controller 60 is in data communication with
   the player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
30 with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
   display. Typically, the game play instructions are  stored
   as program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically

                               -  14
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include:    a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
 5 e.g. a PC or a server.
         A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2.    The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
10 by a player.   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22   for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.   The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
15 chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.     Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.  A player marketing module    (not shown) having a
   reading device may also be provided for the purpose of
20 reading a player tracking device, for example as part of a
   loyalty program.   The player tracking device may be in the
   form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage
   medium capable of being read by the reading device.
   Reference numeral 31 indicates a magnetic card reader for
25 reading a magnetic card to implement a loyalty system in
   this embodiment.
         A top box 26 may carry artwork 28,    including for
   example pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.     Further
30 artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.    A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.

                               -  15
         The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a
   video display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.  Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
 5 display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.    The top box 26 may also include
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14,   or of a different
   type.
10       Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative
   components of a typical gaming machine which may be the
   same as or different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
         The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102.   Instructions and data to control
15 operation of the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.
   Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
   type of memory, with such memories being collectively
20 represented by the memory 103.
         The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for
   purposes including ensuring regulatory compliance and
   monitoring player credit, an input/output    (I/O) interface
   105 for communicating with peripheral devices of the
25 gaming machine 100.  The input/output interface 105 and/or
   the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with
   their own memory for storing associated instructions and
   data for use with the input/output interface or the
   peripheral devices.  A  random number generator module 113
30 generates random numbers for use by the processor 102.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
   reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random
   numbers.

                              -  16
         In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface
   120 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the
   game controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106,   a
   touch screen and/or buttons 107, a card and/or ticket
 5 reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin
   input mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.
   Additional hardware may be included as part of the gaming
   machine 100, or hardware may be omitted as required for
   the specific implementation.
10       In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface,  for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
15 data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database.
         Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components
   of an exemplary memory 103.    The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.    The RAM
20 103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.    The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.    The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
25 integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
         It is also possible for the operative components of
   the gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
30 input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
         Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with
   an alternative embodiment.   The gaming system 200 includes

                               -   17
   a network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet
   network.   Gaming machines 202,    shown arranged in three
   banks 203 of two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are
   connected to the network 201.      The gaming machines 202
 5 provide a player operable interface and may be the same as
   the gaming machines 10,100    shown in Figures 2 and 3, or
   may have simplified functionality depending on the
   requirements for implementing game play.      While banks 203
   of two gaming machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks
10 of one, three or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
         One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.   For example, the displays 204 may be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
15 associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
         In a thick client embodiment, game server 205
   implements part of the game played by a player using a
20 gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 implements
   part of the game. With this embodiment, as both the game
   server and the gaming device implement part of the game,
   they collectively provide a game controller. A database
   management  server 206 may manage storage of game programs
25 and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.      A loyalty
30 program server 212 may also be provided.
         In a thin client embodiment, game server 205
   implements most or all of the game played by a player
   using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202

                               - 18
   essentially provides only the player interface.    With this
   embodiment, the game server 205 provides the game
   controller. The gaming machine will receive player
   instructions, pass these to the game server which will
 5 process them and return game play outcomes to the gaming
   machine for display.   In a thin client embodiment, the
   gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs
   running software that provides a player interface operable
   using standard computer input and output components.
10       Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200,   including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208,   and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.    An administrator terminal
15 210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
         The gaming system 200 may communicate with other
   gaming systems, other local networks,   for example a
   corporate network, and/or a wide area network such as the
20 Internet, for example through a firewall 211.
         Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different  computers.   For example, elements
25 may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
   separate server may be provided.    For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.   Further, persons skilled in the art
30 will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.

                                - 19
          Referring to Figure 6, the functionality of
   embodiments of the present invention may be implemented by
   a game controller 300 having the functional components
   illustrated.    In this embodiment, the functional
 5 components are implemented utilising a processor and
   memory   (such as processor 102 and memory 103 in Figure 3,
   or processor 62 and memory 64 in Figure 1, for the game
   server 205 in Figure 5),   and associated programming.
   Other implementations are envisaged.    For example the
10 functional blocks of Figure 6 may be implemented in
   hardware as separate units, or a combination of hardware
   and software as separate units.    Any practical
   implementation of these functional units may be employed.
          In this embodiment, the game controller 300 is
15 arranged to control the gaming system to play a game which
   comprises selection of a plurality of symbols from a set
   of symbols.    The game is implemented as a "reel" game.
   The game controller 300 comprises a display controller 301
   which is arranged to control the display    (reference
20 numerals 54,   14, 106, 204 of previous figures) to emulate
   a representation of reels bearing symbols.     Alternatively,
   the display may comprise a stepper motor and physical
   reels bearing the symbols.
          The game controller 300 includes a symbol selector
25 302 which is arranged to select a plurality of symbols
   from a set of symbols available in a symbol store 303.     An
   outcome generator 304 is arranged to determine an outcome
   of the game.    In this embodiment, the outcome of the game
   depends on the selected symbols and may include a win
30 outcome, loss outcome, trigger outcome, a feature outcome
   or other outcome.    Outcomes may be determined on the basis
   of symbols appearing in one or more horizontal lines,
   diagonal lines, or any other pre-determined combinations.

                                  - 20
         Figure 7 shows a representation of a gaming machine
   display 400 which, in the example shown, has five reels
   (numbered "1"   to "5").    The display 400 shows three reel
   positions high when the reels have stopped /      the symbols
 5 have been selected.     The reel positions are designated
   Bottom   ("B"), Centre   ("C") and Top ("T").  This  is a
   typical reel-type display for a gaming machine.       It will
   be appreciated that in other embodiments the number of
   reel positions may be more or less than in display 400.
10 Also the number of reels may be more or less than in the
   display 400.
          The reels may be virtual reels, generated as a video
   display from the selected symbols, actual mechanical reels
   carrying the symbols and driven by a stepper motor, or any
15 other reel arrangement or emulation.      In the case of
   actual physical reels, the game controller 300 drives a
   stepper motor to randomly select the symbols appearing in
   the display 400.
          The game outcome is determined by the outcome
20 generator 304 based on combinations of symbols      selected
   and appearing in the display 400.      The symbols may be any
   symbols.    As will be appreciated, many different types of
   symbols are used in gaming systems.      A set of  symbols may
   include standard symbols and function symbols.       For
25 example, standard symbols may resemble fruit such as
   apples, pears and bananas with a win outcome being
   determined when a predetermined number of the same fruit
   appear on a display in the same line,     scattered, and so
   on.  The function associated with a function symbol may be
30 a "wild" function wherein display of the function symbol
   is treated during consideration of the game outcome as any
   of the standard symbols.      Other functions may include
   scatter functions, multiplier functions, repeat win

                                -   21
   functions, jackpot functions and feature commencement
   functions.
         In the example shown in Figure 7, the symbols      are
   representations of cards.      In this example, a winning hand
 5 appearing on the C line may cause the outcome generator to
   determine that a Win has occurred and that an appropriate
   prize may be awarded.    For example,   five of a kind  (e.g. 5
   jacks "J", 5 tens "10"   etc) on the C line may result in a
   win.
10       In addition to the card symbols there are other
   symbols, including "traffic light" 405 symbols which may
   be function symbols and also "wild card" symbols 404.        In
   this example, there are also "jackpot"     symbols which, when
   selected, enable a  jackpot prize to be awarded.
15       The diagram shown in Figure 7 is one way of
   representing the symbols only.      It will be appreciated
   that in other embodiments of the invention symbols may be
   represented in different ways, using any type of fancy
   artwork, or in any appropriate manner.
20       Games are operated based on player credit     (which may
   be accumulated from previous games or may be entered by
   the player either as cash or from a player account).       The
   players win entitlement may vary from game to game and may
   or may not be dependent on player selections.      In most
25 spinning wheel games, it is typical for the player
   entitlement to be affected by the amount they wager and
   selections they make   (i.e. the nature of the wager).     For
   example, a player's win entitlement may be based on how
   many lines they place a wager on in each game
30 i.e. minimum of one line up to the maximum number of lines
   allowed by the game  (noting that not all permutations of
   win lines may be available for selection).      Such win lines
   are typically formed by a combination of displayed symbol

                               - 22
   positions, one from each reel, the symbol positions being
   located relative to one another such that they form a
   line.
          In many games, the player's win entitlement is not
 5 strictly limited to the lines they have selected.      For
   example, "scatter" pays may be rewarded independently of a
   player's selection of pay lines and are an inherent part
   of the win entitlement.
          Referring to Figure 8, further functional components
10 of an embodiment of the present invention are illustrated.
   A credit meter 308 is arranged to monitor the amount of
   credit available to a player playing the game.     The credit
   meter 308 may be implemented by a credit mechanism     (such
   as credit mechanism 52 of Figure 1, credit mechanism 24 of
15 Figure 2,  hardware meters 104 of Figure 3 or processor 102
   and memory 103 of Figure 3, or processor 62 and memory 64
   in Figure 1, or the game server 205 in Figure    5) and
   associated programming.
          As discussed previously, many jurisdictions require
20 that a set proportion of wagered credit is paid out by the
   gaming system as "return to player"    (RTP).  In many
   venues, the RTP of individual gaming terminals
    (e.g. individual gaming terminal, EGM or other player
   console) is set to be low so that other aspects of the
25 venue can be funded, by linked prizes such as linked
   jackpots, etc.   This can make it difficult   for individual
   machines to attract players.    In many cases, the player
   may not  care which individual terminal he is playing, as
   long as he is playing for the linked prize.     This makes it
30 more difficult for individual manufacturers to distinguish
   their gaming terminals.
          In some venues, a linked loyalty system may also be
   funded from player credit, providing further incentive to

                               -  23
   suppress the RTP of individual terminals.
         In an embodiment of the present invention, a credit
   accumulator 309  (Figure 8) is provided, which is arranged
   to accumulate a proportion of credit input to to be
 5 associated with any particular terminal.     The credit
   accumulator 309 may be implemented by a processor and
   memory or credit meter,  (such as meters 104   of Figure 3,
   credit mechanism 52 of Figure 1,    credit mechanism 24 of
   Figure 2, processor 102  and memory 103 of Figure 3,
10 processor 62 and memory 64 of Figure 1, or game server 205
   in Figure 5) and appropriate software.     The credit
   accumulator 309 is associated with an individual terminal.
   For example, the terminal may be an EGM such as that shown
   in Figure 2, and the credit accumulator 309 is associated
15 with that particular EGM.    Alternatively, the terminal may
   be a console type terminal    (203 of Figure 5) served by a
   central server.   In such an embodiment, the central server
   may implement a credit accumulator which is associated
   with a particular terminal i.e. the accumulated credit is
20 not allocated to any other of the linked terminals.
         A player may play for the accumulated credit at the
   terminal that the credit accumulator 309 is associated
   with.  This creates an attraction to that particular
   terminal.
25       In this embodiment, the accumulated credit is played
   for via a feature game.   Further, the accumulated credit
   may be played for by players who identify themselves to
   the player terminal as members of a loyalty scheme
   associated with the player terminal.
30       Because a portion of the credit entered into the
   player terminal is accumulated, this accumulated credit
   can be used to award higher prizes at the player terminal,
   than if the accumulated "pool" was not available.     The

                               -   24
   total RTP of the terminal may remain unaffected.       A
   proportion of the RTP is paid during play of the standard
   game  (i.e. the game that is not associated with the
   accumulated portion of the credit).      The other portion of
 5 the RTP  is paid from the accumulated credit.
          Identification of an eligible player may be by any
   means as discussed above.     In this embodiment it is by
   magnetic card, via magnetic card reader      (e.g. card reader
   31 of Figure 2, where the terminal is an EGM).       Allowing
10 only eligible players to play for the accumulated credit
   "pool" attracts players to become "loyal members" of a
   venue and, for example, particular manufactures EGM's.
          Figures 9 and 10 show displays of an EGM, such as
   that illustrated in Figure 2,     in accordance with an
15 embodiment of the present invention.      In Figure 9, the
   "loyalty mode is off".   A player is only allowed to play a
   base game, therefore, for credit which is available
   outside of the accumulated pool of credit.       In this mode,
   any player may play the machine, but they can not play for
20 the credit in the accumulator 309.
          When the card reader 31 detects an insertion of a
   card, a loyalty mode is switched to "on"      (Figure 10).   A
   player can now play for credit stored in the accumulator
   309.
25        In this embodiment, the accumulated credit is played
   for via a feature game.   A trigger in the standard game
   (display of Figures  9 and 10)    is required to trigger the
   feature game,  even when loyalty mode is on.      In this
   embodiment, the trigger is three scattered "S"      symbols.
30 With loyalty mode off, even though the three S symbols are
   present, the feature game is not triggered.       With loyalty
   mode "on"  and three "S" symbols are    selected, the feature
   game is triggered.   Referring to Figure 11,     the feature

                                - 25
   game in this embodiment is a "pick the window" type of
   game.   The player is invited to select one of eight spots
   500 on the display.    The display may be the same display
   area as Figures   8 or 10 or different display area   (e.g. in
 5 a top box).   The display selection may be via a touch
   screen interface, or any other type of interface.      The
   player selects a spot.    A prize associated with the
   selected spot is then revealed.     The prize is taken from
   the accumulated credit in the credit accumulator 309.
10        This is one embodiment only, and many variations are
   of standard game and feature game may be implemented in
   accordance with the present invention.     The standard game
   need not be a reel game, as in the above embodiment.       It
   could, for example, be a keno or bingo type game, or any
15 other type of game.    The feature game need not be a "touch
   the spot"  game but could be any other type of game.     It
   could be a variation on the standard game.      For example,
   it could be a further reel game where different
   combinations of   symbols pay prizes out of the accumulated
20 credit pool.   In a further embodiment, the accumulated
   credit may be paid out as a prize, such as a     jackpot
   prize, which is only offered to eligible players.
          A game playing process in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention will now be summarised
25 with reference to Figure 12.     At step 601 a player
   commences play of a gaming terminal such an EGM.      At 602 a
   determination is made as to whether or not a bet has been
   made.   If "yes", a base or standard game is played in
   accordance with the bet    (step 603).  At step  604 it is
30 determined whether a trigger condition has been met to
   play a feature game.    If "no", then play returns to the
   start,  step 601.   If "yes" than at step  605 it is
   determined whether a loyalty card has been received.       This

                                  - 26
   embodiment requires loyalty eligibility in order to enable
   play for the accumulated credit.        If no loyalty card is
   detected, play returns to the start.
           If a loyalty card has been inserted, a player is
 5 enabled to play the feature game for the accumulated
   credit    (step 106).
           The following examples give further variations on
   implementations of the present invention.
10 Examples
   A game is installed at a venue.
   The game is set with an RTP      in the standard game  (base
   plus standard features) of 87%
15 The game is also set with an additional percentage of all
   turnover to go to a pool     (portion of accumulated credit)
   -   say 4%.
   The total return to player is      91%.
20 A player plays the game with a player card inserted:
   The game software recognises that a player card is
   inserted and activates the "pool features" module in the
   software.
25
   The game plays the standard game as per usual.
   The standard game can have the usual betting options of
   betting on lines or reels, bets per line/reel, ante bet.
   The standard game can have the usual prize features
30 e.g. base game,     feature games, ante bet rewards,   jackpot
   prizes,    linked prizes.
   The "pool features" rewards the player from the pool:

                            - 27
   1. Eligibility can include the following:
      (a)   only players who have inserted the player card
            are eligible
 5    (b)   player cards could have different "levels" of
            players which entitles the players to different
            levels of  feature
      (c)   other ways
10 2. Triggering a pool feature can be as follows:
      (a)   Related to a turnover on the machine
      (b)   Related to a symbol combination on the machine
             (advertised or secret)
      (c)   Related to a time period on the machine
15    (d)   Related to prizes paid on the machine
      (e)   Related to an accumulation of prizes on a
            machine
      (f)   Other ways
20 3. Nature of the pool feature can be as follows
      (a)   A progressive prize which is displayed and
            known to the player
      (b)   A progressive prize which is not known to the
            player
25    (c)   A mystery prize
      (d)   A game which awards a prize of advertised value
      (e)   A game which awards a prize of unknown value
      (f)   A  series of free games
      (g)   Other
30
   4. Funding the pool feature is from the percentage of
      turnover.

                                - 28
          (a)   In one embodiment a percentage of all turnover
                on a game is accounted for in the machine and
                "stored" in a prize pool from which prizes are
                paid.  (this is the easiest method to implement
 5              from an accounting view point)
          (b)   Alternatively a percentage of turnover on games
                where the player card is inserted are accounted
                for in the machine
          (c)   Additional purchase money bet by a player to
10              purchase a feature could be put to a pool in
                addition to any turnover money
          (d)   Other
15 5.     Presentation of the "pool feature" may be as follows:
          (a)   The pool feature is played and displayed on the
                machine
          (b)   Additionally some pool features could be
                displayed on an overhead display visible to
20              players at many machines   (the show-off effect)
          (c)   Special sounds are associated with "pool
                features"
          (d)   Other
25 A player plays the game without a player card inserted:
   The game plays only in the standard mode.
   A percentage of turnover is accounted for in the "pool"
   meter.
30 The player can only receive "RTP" of 87%    but contributes
   91%.
          In a further embodiment, eligibility may not be

                                - 29
   required to play for the pool feature.      The pool feature
   may be open to all players.     This still provides a
   different, attractive aspect of play at a gaming terminal.
         In the above embodiment, a trigger is required to
 5 enable play of the feature game for the accumulated
   credit.  In other embodiments, a trigger may not be
   necessary.   Where player eligibility is required, for
   example, it may be sufficient that an eligible player is
   playing the terminal to enable play for the feature games
10 (the player may, for example, elect to play the feature
   game(s) which they are eligible    for).
         As discussed above, the player terminals may be
   standalone terminals   (e.g. EGMs) or may be terminals
   associated with a remote game server     (thick client or thin
15 client).
         In the above described embodiments, player
   eligibility is determined by a magnetic card or other type
   of card.   This may be a membership card, for example,
   identifying the owner as a member of a loyalty program,
20 for example.
         In another embodiment, eligible players may be
   identified by tokens.    These tokens may be earned or
   purchased, for example.    For example, one or more tokens
   could be earned by purchase of goods or services
25 associated with a program e.g. associated with a venue
   associated with a loyalty program or other program which
   enables qualification for eligibility to play for the
   accumulated credit.   Tokens may be any device, and in one
   embodiment are tickets that may be read by a device
30 associated with the terminal e.g. a bill reader.      The
   tokens may be associated with a venue where the terminals
   are located e.g. a club or casino.     Purchasing of
   goods/services at the venue may enable a player to earn

                                - 30
   tokens so that they can be eligible to play for the
   accumulated portion of the credit.    Earning of tokens may
   not be limited to purchase of goods and services, but
   could be by any means.    The tokens could be purchased, for
 5 example.
          In a further variation of the invention, feature
   games may be available on particular terminals that do not
   play for any accumulated credit, but are only able to be
   played by eligible players e.g. players in loyalty schemes
10 such as discussed above.    Players may purchase or earn
   tokens, such as tickets, for example, to enable them to
   play particular games available only to eligible players.
   In this embodiment, there is no accumulated portion of
   credit played for, only the opportunity to play feature
15 games.
          In the above embodiments, where there is credit
   accumulated, the accumulated portion of credit is used to
   play for prizes.   In a further embodiment, the accumulated
   portion of credit may be used to buy feature games.     That
20 is eligible players   (e.g. players identified as belonging
   to a loyalty system or otherwise able to access a
   particular game) can   "buy" the game they wish to play
   e.g. a particular feature game, using credit from the
   accumulated portion of credit.    This may be considered a
25 "bonus" for the player as it allows an eligible player to
   obtain "free"  games.   In such an embodiment, a trigger may
   or may not be required to enable the eligible player to
   play a feature game and receive the accumulated portion of
   credit to pay for the feature game e.g. bet on various
30 lines in a reel game, etc.
          In the above embodiments, an eligible player may be
   recognised by any number of means e.g. a card reader
   reading a magnetic stripe card, non-contact card, reading

                              - 31
   a ticket or other token.  The identification may be
   processed by a stand-alone terminal EGM, or by a networked
   system or by any other means.
         It will be appreciated that the above-described
 5 embodiments may be implemented using the program code.
   The program code may be supplied in any number of ways,
   for example on a computer readable medium, such as disk or
   a memory card or as a data signal   (by downloading it from
   a server).
10       In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive   sense,
15 i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
         It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art
   that numerous variations and/or modifications may be made
20 to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments
   without departing from the spirit or scope of the
   invention as broadly described.   The present embodiments
   are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
   illustrative and not restrictive.
25

                              - 32
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.    A gaming machine comprising a game controller
   arranged to facilitate a play of a game on which a player
 5 can wager at least one credit on an outcome of the game,
   the game being arranged to provide the player with an
   opportunity to win a jackpot prize that is common to a
   plurality of gaming machines each of which is arranged to
   award the jackpot prize, the gaming machine further
10 comprising a credit accumulator arranged to maintain an
   accumulated portion of the credit received at the gaming
   machine from the player, the game being arranged to
   provide the player with an opportunity to win the
   accumulated portion of the credit, the accumulated portion
15 of the credit being unique to the gaming machine such that
   only the gaming machine can award the accumulated portion
   of the credit and none of the plurality of gaming machines
   can award the accumulated portion of the credit, the
   accumulated portion of the credit being such that it
20 contributes to an overall return to a player
   characteristic of the gaming machine.
   2.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, the
   player terminal comprising a stand alone player terminal.
25
   3.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein
   the player terminal is networked to a central system.
   4.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1 or
30 Claim 2, wherein the player terminal  is an electronic
   gaming machine  (EGM).

                              - 33
   5.    A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein the accumulated portion of
   credit can only be played for via the associated player
   terminal.
 5
   6.    A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, being arranged to make available play
   for the accumulated portion of credit only to eligible
   players.
10
   7.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 6,
   comprising an identifying device for identifying eligible
   players.
15 8.    A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, further comprising the player terminal.
   9.    A method of gaming, comprising the steps of receiving
   credit for play of a game, accumulating a portion of the
20 credit received, associating the accumulated portion of
   credit with a player terminal, and playing a feature game
   for the accumulated portion of credit.
   10.   A method in accordance with Claim 9, wherein the
25 player terminal is a stand alone player terminal.
   11.   A method in accordance with Claim 9, wherein the
   player terminal is networked to a central system.
30 12.   A method in accordance with Claim 9 or Claim 10,
   wherein the player terminal is an EGM.

                              - 34
   13.   A method in accordance with any one of Claims 9 to
   12, wherein the feature game may only be played via the
   associated player terminal.
 5 14.   A method in accordance with any one of Claims 9 to
   13, comprising a further step of enabling play of the
   feature game only by eligible players.
   15.   A method in accordance with Claim 14, comprising the
10 further step of identifying eligible players.
   16.   A gaming system comprising at least one gaming
   machine comprising a game controller arranged to
   facilitate a play of a game on which a player can wager at
15 least one credit on an outcome of the game, the game being
   arranged to provide the player with an opportunity to win
   a jackpot prize that is common to a plurality of gaming
   machines each of which is arranged to award the jackpot
   prize, the gaming machine further comprising a credit
20 accumulator arranged to maintain an accumulated portion of
   the credit received at the gaming machine from the player,
   the game being arranged to provide the player with an
   opportunity to win the accumulated portion of the credit,
   the accumulated portion of the credit being unique to the
25 gaming machine such that only the gaming machine can award
   the accumulated portion of the credit and none of the
   other plurality of gaming machines, of the gaming system,
   can award the accumulated portion of the credit, the
   accumulated portion of the credit being such that it
30 contributes to an overall return to player characteristic
   of the gaming machine.

                              - 35
   17.   A gaming system in accordance with Claim 16, further
   comprising the player terminal.
   18.   A method of gaming, comprising the steps ofreceiving
 5 credit, allowing a player to play a game based on the
   credit, accumulating a portion of the credit, providing an
   opportunity to win a jackpot prize that is common to a
   plurality of gaming machines, providing an opportunity to
   win the accumulated portion of the credit, the accumulated
10 portion of the credit being unique to a player selected
   gaming machine, awarding a jackpot if a jackpot condition
   is met, awarding the accumulated portion of the credit if
   an award condition is reached, the accumulated portion of
   the credit being awarded through the selected machine only
15 wherein the accumulated credit contributes to the overall
   returns to a player.
   19.   A computer program comprising instructions to control
   a computer to implement a gaming machine in accordance
20 with any one of Claims 1 to 8.
   20.   A computer readable medium providing a computer
   program in accordance with Claim 19.
25 21.   A data signal comprising a computer program in
   accordance with Claim 19.
   22.   A computer program comprising instructions for
   controlling a computer to implement a gaming system in
30 accordance with Claim 16 or Claim 17.
   23.   A computer readable medium providing a computer
   program in accordance with Claim 22.

                           - 36
24.   A data signal comprising a computer program in
accordance with Claim 22.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                !
                #
                    !
                        !
            "
                                     !
#
    #                            "
        !
                "

