Abstract
Functionalized substrate materials, for example inorganic particles and/or synthetic polymeric
particles, are used to enhance bioprocesses such as saccharification and fermentation.

                                    BIOPROCESSING
                                    RELATED APPLICATIONS
             This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/180,019,
    filed May 20, 2009, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/252,300, filed October 16,
  5 2009. The complete disclosure of each of these applications is hereby incorporated by
    reference herein.
                                          BACKGROUND
             Carbohydrates can be converted into other materials by bioprocessing techniques
    that utilize agents such as microorganisms or enzymes. For example, in fermentation
 10 carbohydrates are converted into alcohols or acids by microorganisms, e.g., sugar is
    converted to alcohol using yeast under anaerobic conditions. When fermentation stops
    prior to complete conversion of a carbohydrate to a product, e.g., sugar to alcohol, a
    "stuck" fermentation is said to have occurred.
             Other bioprocessing techniques include the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulosic and
 i5 lignocellulosic materials into low molecular weight sugars.
                                             SUMMARY
             In some instances, the presence of a substrate in a bioprocess facilitates
    conversion, for example of a low molecular weight sugar to an intermediate or a product
    or of a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material to a low molecular weight sugar. The
20  inventors have found that including a substrate, e.g., an inorganic or organic material, in a
    mixture with a low molecular weight sugar, a medium, e.g., a solvent or solvent system,
    and a microorganism can improve the yield and production rate of an intermediate or a
    product obtained by conversion of the sugar, for example an alcohol such as ethanol or
    butanol (e.g., n-butanol). Including the substrate also can prevent incomplete, sluggish,
25  or "stuck" product conversion, e.g., by fermentation. Similarly, the inclusion of a
    substrate can enhance enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials.
                                                    1

             Generally, the invention features methods that include using a microorganism
    and/or an enzyme that is immobilized on a substrate, e.g., fibers or particles, to convert a
    carbohydrate to a product.
             In one aspect, the invention features a method that includes using a
  5 microorganism that is immobilized on a substrate, e.g., inorganic or plastic particles or
    fibers, to convert a low molecular weight sugar, e.g., sucrose, glucose, xylose, or a
    mixture of any of these, to an intermediate or a product. In some cases, the substrate is
    functionalized with functional groups that the substrate does not have in its natural state.
             By "immobilized," it is meant that the microorganism or enzyme is bonded,
 10 directly or indirectly (e.g., through a chemical linker), to the substrate (e.g., particles or
    fibers) by covalent, hydrogen, ionic, or equivalent bonding, and/or by mechanical
    interaction, e.g., between the microorganism and pores of a fiber or particle. Bonding
    may be created, e.g., by electrically polarizing the substrate material. The interaction can
    be permanent, semi-permanent, or fleeting. Mechanical interaction may include the
 i5 microorganism or enzyme nesting in or clinging to pores or other sites of a fiber or
    particle.
             Some implementations include one or more of the following features.
             Converting can include allowing the microorganism to convert at least a portion
    of the low molecular weight sugar to an alcohol, e.g., ethanol or butanol, or to a
 ?0 hydrocarbon or hydrogen. Converting may include fermentation. The microorganism
    may comprise a yeast, e.g., S. cerevisiae and/or P. stipitis, or a bacterium, e.g.,
    Zymomonas mobilis. The method may further include irradiating the substrate, e.g.,
    inorganic fibers, for example with ionizing radiation, such as a particle beam. The fibers
    or particles may have a BET surface area of greater than 0.25 m 2/g, and/or a porosity of
25  at least 70%. In some cases the BET surface area may be greater than 10, 100, 250, 500,
    or even 1000 m 2/g. The method may further include reusing the substrate in a subsequent
    conversion process.
             In another aspect, the invention features a mixture that includes a substrate, e.g., a
    particulate material, having polar functional groups, a microorganism or enzyme having
30  complementary functional groups, and a liquid medium. In some cases, the substrate
    comprises fibers, e.g., inorganic fibers or plastic fibers.
                                                   2

             In a further aspect, the invention features a composition comprising a substrate,
    e.g., fibers or particles, having functional groups, and a microorganism or enzyme having
    complementary functional groups, the microorganism or enzyme being immobilized on
    the substrate. When fibers are used the fibers may be, for example, inorganic fibers or
  5 plastic fibers.
             The invention also features a method that includes converting a low molecular
    weight sugar, or a material that includes a low molecular weight sugar, in a mixture with
    a substrate, a microorganism, and a solvent or a solvent system, e.g., water or a mixture
    of water and an organic solvent, to an intermediate or a product. Examples of solvents or
 10 solvent systems include water, hexane, hexadecane, glycerol, chloroform, toluene, ethyl
    acetate, petroleum ether, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), ionic liquids and mixtures
    thereof. The solvent or solvent system can be in the form of a single phase or two or
    more phases. The substrate can be, e.g., in fibrous form. For example, the substrate may
    comprise inorganic fibers or synthetic fibers, e.g., plastic fibers.
 is          In some instances, having a substrate (e.g., fibers treated by any method described
    herein or untreated) present during production of an intermediate or a product, such as
    ethanol, can enhance the production rate of the product. Without wishing to be bound by
    any particular theory, it is believed that having a solid present, such as a high surface area
    and/or high porosity solid, can increase reaction rates by increasing the effective
 ?0 concentration of solutes and providing a substrate on which reactions can occur.
             For example, an irradiated or an un-irradiated fibrous material, e.g., inorganic
    materials such as carbon fibers or glass fibers, or synthetic polymeric materials such as
    plastic fibers, can be added to a fermentation process, such as a corn-ethanol fermentation
    or a sugarcane extract fermentation, to increase the rate of production by at least 10, 15,
25  20, 30, 40, 50, 75, or 100 percent, or more, e.g., at least 150 percent or even up to 1000
    percent. The fibrous material can have a high surface area, high porosity, and/or low
    bulk density. In some embodiments, the fibrous material is present in the mixture at a
    concentration of from about 0.5 percent to about 50 percent by weight, such as between
    about 1 percent and about 25 percent by weight, or between about 2 percent and about
30  12.5 percent by weight. In other embodiments, the fibrous material is present in amounts
    greater than about 0.5 percent by weight, such as greater than about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
                                                    3

    9, or even greater than about 10 percent by weight. For example, in some embodiments,
    an oxidized, irradiated, or chemically functionalized fibrous material can be added to a
    low molecular weight sugar fermentation process, e.g., to enhance fermentation rate and
    output.
  5          Because the substrate is not itself consumed during the conversion process, the
    substrate can be reused in multiple batch processes, or can be used continuously for the
    production of a relatively large volume of the product.
             Some implementations include one or more of the following features.
             Converting can include allowing the microorganism to convert at least a portion
 10 of the low molecular weight sugar to an alcohol, e.g., ethanol or butanol. For example,
    converting can comprise fermentation. The microorganism can comprise a yeast, e.g.,
    selected from the group consisting of S. cerevisiae and P. stipitis, or a bacterium such as
    Zymomonas mobilis. The microorganism can be a natural microorganism or an
    engineered microorganism. For example, the microorganism can be a bacterium, e.g., a
 is cellulolytic bacterium, a fungus, e.g., a yeast, a plant or a protist, e.g., an algae, a
    protozoa or a fungus-like protist, e.g., a slime mold. When the organisms are compatible,
    mixtures may be utilized. Converting can exhibit a % performance of at least 140%, in
    some cases at least 170%. The equation used to determine % performance for ethanol
    fermentation is:
 ?0             % Performance = (ethanol in the sample/ethanol in control) x 100
             The substrate may comprise a fibrous material. The method can further include
    irradiating the fibrous material prior to mixing, e.g., with ionizing radiation, for example
    at a total dosage of at least 5 Mrad. Irradiating can be performed using a particle beam,
    e.g., an electron beam. In some embodiments, irradiating is performed on the substrate
25  while the substrate is exposed to air, nitrogen, oxygen, helium, or argon. Irradiation can
    be performed utilizing an ionizing radiation, such as gamma rays, a beam of electrons, or
    ultraviolet C radiation having a wavelength of from about 100 nm to about 280 nm.
    Irradiation can be performed using multiple applications of radiation. In some cases, the
    radiation can be applied at a total dose of between about 10 Mrad and about 150 Mrad,
30  and at a dose rate of about 0.5 to about 10 Mrad/day, or 1 Mrad/s to about 10 Mrad/s. In
                                                    4

    some embodiments, irradiating includes applying two or more radiation sources, such as
    gamma rays and a beam of electrons.
            In another aspect, the substrate is included in a saccharification process, in which
    the presence of the substrate can enhance the reaction rate and yield of low molecular
  5 weight sugar from a cellulose-containing feedstock. In this aspect, the invention features
    a method comprising utilizing a saccharifying agent that is immobilized on particles to
    saccharify a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material. The saccharifying agent can be, for
    example, an enzyme.
            Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
 10 same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
    invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
    described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable
    methods and materials are described below. All publications, patent applications,
    patents, and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their
 i5 entirety. In case of conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control.
    In addition, the materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to
    be limiting.
            Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
    following detailed description, and from the claims.
 ?0                              DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating treatment of fibers and the use of the treated
    fibers in a fermentation process. FIG. 1A is a schematic representation of a
    functionalized fiber interacting with a microorganism.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
25          The substrate materials described herein, e.g., functionalized particulate materials,
    can facilitate conversion of low molecular weight sugar to an intermediate or a product,
    e.g., during a fermentation process. Functionalized substrate materials having desired
    types and amounts of functionality, such as carboxylic acid groups, enol groups, aldehyde
                                                    5

    groups, ketone groups, nitrile groups, nitro groups, or nitroso groups, can be prepared
    using the methods described herein or other known methods.
    SUBSTRATE MATERIALS
             The materials discussed below can be functionalized with functional groups that
  5 are complementary with functional groups on an agent to be used in converting a low
    molecular weight sugar, e.g., functional groups present on a microorganism such as yeast.
             Suitable substrate materials include organic and inorganic particulate materials.
    Substrate materials include, for example, inorganic fillers such as calcium carbonate,
    (e.g., precipitated calcium carbonate or natural calcium carbonate), aragonite clay,
 10 orthorhombic clays, calcite clay, rhombohedral clays, kaolin clay, bentonite clay,
    dicalcium phosphate, tricalcium phosphate, calcium pyrophosphate, insoluble sodium
    metaphosphate, magnesium orthophosphate, trimagnesium phosphate, hydroxyapatites,
    synthetic apatites, alumina, hydrated alumina, silica xerogel, metal aluminosilicate
    complexes, sodium aluminum silicates, zirconium silicate, silicon dioxide graphite,
 i5 wollastonite, mica, glass, fiber glass, silica, talc, carbon fibers, conductive carbon black,
    ceramic powders and ceramic fibers, and alumina trihydrate. Other particulate materials
    can also be used, e.g., ground construction waste, ground tire rubber, lignin, maleated
    polypropylene, nylon fibers or other thermoplastic fibers, and fluorinated polymers, e.g.,
    fluorinated polyethylene. Combinations of the above materials can also be used.
 ?0          Some materials are available commercially in a functionalized state. For
    example, carboxyl-functionalized carbon nanotubes are commercially available, e.g.,
    from NanoLab, Newton, MA, USA, and functionalized silica gels are commercially
    available from Isco, Inc.
             The particulate materials can have, e.g., a particle size of greater than 1 micron,
25  e.g., greater than 2 microns, 5 microns, 10 microns, 25 microns or even greater than 35
    microns. Other physical properties of preferred substrates will be described below.
             Nanometer scale fillers can also be used alone, or in combination with fibrous
    materials of any size and/or shape. The fillers can be in the form of, e.g., a particle, a
    plate or a fiber. For example, nanometer sized clays, silicon and carbon nanotubes or
30  bucky balls, and silicon and carbon nanowires can be used. The filler can have a
                                                     6

    transverse dimension less than 1000 nm, e.g., less than 900 nm, 800 nm, 750 nm, 600 nm,
    500 nm, 350 nm, 300 nm, 250 nm, 200 nm, less than 100 nm, or even less than 50 nm.
            In some embodiments, the nano-clay is a montmorillonite. Such clays are
    available from Nanocor, Inc. and Southern Clay products, and have been described in
  5 U.S. Patent Nos. 6,849,680 and 6,737,464. The clays can be surface treated before
    mixing into, e.g., a resin or a fibrous material. For example, the clay can be surface
    treated so that its surface is ionic in nature, e.g., cationic or anionic.
            Aggregated or agglomerated nanometer scale fillers, or nanometer scale fillers
    that are assembled into supramolecular structures, e.g., self-assembled supramolecular
 10 structures, can also be used. The aggregated or supramolecular fillers can be open or
    closed in structure, and can have a variety of shapes, e.g., cage, tube or spherical.
             Blends of any substrate materials described herein can be utilized for making any
    of the products described herein.
    SYSTEMS FOR FUNCTIONALIZING SUBSTRATE MATERIALS
 is AND USING SUBSTRATE MATERIALS IN FERMENTATION
            FIG. 1 shows a system 100 for treating a substrate material, e.g., a fibrous or
    particulate material, and then using the treated material to enhance a fermentation process.
    System 100 includes an optional module 102 in which the substrate material is
    functionalized, e.g., by irradiation, oxidation, chemical functionalization, or other means. If
 ?0 the substrate material is to be used in its native state, or has been pre-functionalized, this step
    is omitted.
            The treated substrate material, e.g., functionalized particles or fibers, is delivered to a
    fermentation system 106 by a substrate delivery module 108. The substrate material may be
    delivered in any desired concentration, e.g., from about 0.05% to about 20%, about 0.1% to
25  about 10%, about 0.2% to about 6%, or about 0.3% to about 4%. Concentration will be
    dictated in part by the properties of the substrate material used and how much of the
    substrate material can be added as a practical matter.
            The functionalized substrate material is then present during fermentation and
    enhances the fermentation process by providing a substrate that can interact with the
30  microorganisms used in fermentation, e.g., yeast cells. This interaction is shown
                                                      7

    schematically in FIG. 1A, which depicts a functionalized polar fiber 10 and a yeast cell 12
    having a complementary polar functional group. Due to the polarity of the fibers and the
    yeast cell, the cell can become immobilized on one or more of the fibers. Bonding of the
    yeast cell (or other microorganism) to the fibers may be by hydrogen bonding, or by
  5 covalent or ionic bonding. In some cases, the functional groups on the fibers may react with
    those on the microorganism, forming a covalent bond. The high surface area and porosity of
    the fibers provides a large surface area for interaction of the fiber and microorganism and
    thus enhances this interaction. The immobilized cells are more productive, increasing the
    efficiency and yield of the fermentation process and preventing the process from becoming
 10 prematurely "stuck."
             It is noted that if mixing is performed during fermentation, the mixing is preferably
    relatively gentle (low shear) so as to minimize disruption of the interaction between the
    microorganisms and fibers. In some embodiments, jet mixing is used, as described in U.S.
    Provisional Application Nos. 61/179,995, filed May 20, 2009, and 61/218,832, filed June
 is 19, 2009, and in USSN                       , filed concurrently with the present application
    under Attorney Docket Number 001 19-1US. The complete disclosure of each of these
    applications is incorporated herein by reference.
             In the implementation shown in FIG. 1, fermentation produces a crude ethanol
    mixture, which flows into a holding tank 110. Water or other solvent, and other non-ethanol
 ?0 components, are stripped from the crude ethanol mixture using a stripping column 112, and
    the ethanol is then distilled using a distillation unit 114, e.g., a rectifier. Finally, the ethanol
    can be dried using a molecular sieve 116, denatured if necessary, and output to a desired
    shipping method.
             In some cases, the systems described herein, or components thereof, may be
25  portable, so that the system can be transported (e.g., by rail, truck, or marine vessel) from
    one location to another. The method steps described herein can be performed at one or
    more locations, and in some cases one or more of the steps can be performed in transit.
    Such mobile processing is described in U.S. Serial No. 12/374,549 and International
    Application No. WO 2008/011598, the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein
30  by reference.
                                                       8

    PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF THE SUBSTRATE
            Both functionalized substrate materials and substrate materials in their natural
    state can have the physical properties discussed herein.
            As used herein, average fiber widths (i.e., diameters) are determined optically by
  5 randomly selecting approximately 5,000 fibers. Average fiber lengths are corrected
    length-weighted lengths. BET (Brunauer, Emmet and Teller) surface areas are multi
    point surface areas, and porosities are those determined by mercury porosimetry.
            If the substrate material is fibrous, in some cases the average length-to-diameter
    ratio of fibers of the substrate material can be, e.g., greater than 8/1, e.g., greater than
 i0 10/1, greater than 15/1, greater than 20/1, greater than 25/1, or greater than 50/1. An
    average length of the fibers can be, e.g., between about 0.5 mm and 2.5 mm, e.g.,
    between about 0.75 mm and 1.0 mm, and an average width (i.e., diameter) of the fibers
    can be, e.g., between about 5 pim and 50 pim, e.g., between about 10 pim and 30 pim.
            In some embodiments, a standard deviation of the length of the fibers is less than
 is 60 percent of an average length of the fibers, e.g., less than 50 percent of the average
    length, less than 40 percent of the average length, less than 25 percent of the average
    length, less than 10 percent of the average length, less than 5 percent of the average
    length, or even less than 1 percent of the average length.
            In some embodiments, a BET surface area of the substrate material is greater than
 ?0 0.1 m 2/g, e.g., greater than 0.25 m 2/g, 0.5 m 2/g, 1.0 m 2/g, 1.5 m 2/g, 1.75 m 2/g, 5.0 m 2/g,
    10 m2/g, 25 m 2/g, 35 m2/g, 50 m2/g, 75 m 2/g, 100 m2/g, 200 m2/g, 250 m 2/g, 500 m 2/g, or
    even greater than 1000 m 2/g.
            A porosity of the substrate material can be, e.g., greater than 20 percent, greater
    than 25 percent, greater than 35 percent, greater than 50 percent, greater than 60 percent,
25  greater than 70 percent, e.g., greater than 80 percent, greater than 85 percent, greater than
    90 percent, greater than 92 percent, greater than 94 percent, greater than 95 percent,
    greater than 97.5 percent, greater than 99 percent, or even greater than 99.5 percent.
    QUENCHING AND FUNCTIONALIZATION OF THE SUBSTRATE
30          In some cases, the substrate material is functionalized by irradiation. Other
    techniques may also be used, as is well known in the art, for example oxidation or
                                                     9

    chemical functionalization. In some cases, functionalizing the substrate material is not
    part of the process, e.g., the material is used in its natural state, or is pre-functionalized by
    a supplier.
             After treatment with ionizing radiation, the substrate material becomes ionized;
  5 that is, the material includes radicals at levels that are detectable with an electron spin
    resonance spectrometer. The current practical limit of detection of the radicals is about
    1014  spins at room temperature. After ionization, the material can be quenched to reduce
    the level of radicals in the ionized material, e.g., such that the radicals are no longer
    detectable with the electron spin resonance spectrometer. For example, the radicals can
 10 be quenched by the application of a sufficient pressure to the material and/or by utilizing
    a fluid in contact with the ionized material, such as a gas or liquid, that reacts with
    (quenches) the radicals. The use of a gas or liquid to at least aid in the quenching of the
    radicals also allows the operator to control functionalization of the ionized material with
    a desired amount and kind of functional groups, such as carboxylic acid groups, enol
 i5 groups, aldehyde groups, nitro groups, nitrile groups, amino groups, alkyl amino groups,
    alkyl groups, chloroalkyl groups or chlorofluoroalkyl groups. As discussed above, the
    functional groups imparted to the material by quenching can act as receptor sites for
    attachment by microorganisms or enzymes.
             Detecting radicals in irradiated samples by electron spin resonance spectroscopy
 ?0 and radical lifetimes in such samples is discussed in Bartolotta et al., Physics in Medicine
    and Biology, 46 (2001), 461-471 and in Bartolotta et al., Radiation Protection Dosimetry,
    Vol. 84, Nos. 1-4, pp. 293-296 (1999).
             In some embodiments, the quenching includes an application of pressure to the
    ionized material, such as by mechanically deforming the material, e.g., directly
25  mechanically compressing the material in one, two, or three dimensions, or applying
    pressure to a fluid in which the material is immersed, e.g., isostatic pressing. In such
    instances, the deformation of the material itself brings radicals, which are often trapped in
    crystalline domains, in sufficient proximity so that the radicals can recombine, or react
    with another group. In some instances, the pressure is applied together with the
30  application of heat, such as a sufficient quantity of heat to elevate the temperature of the
    material to above a melting point or softening point of the material or a component of the
                                                    10

    material. Heat can improve molecular mobility in the material, which can aid in the
    quenching of the radicals. When pressure is utilized to quench, the pressure can be
    greater than about 1000 psi, such as greater than about 1250 psi, 1450 psi, 3625 psi, 5075
    psi, 7250 psi, 10000 psi or even greater than 15000 psi.
  5         In some embodiments, quenching includes contacting the material with a fluid,
    such as a liquid or gas, e.g., a gas capable of reacting with the radicals, such as acetylene
    or a mixture of acetylene in nitrogen, ethylene, chlorinated ethylenes or
    chlorofluoroethylenes, propylene or mixtures of these gases. In other particular
    embodiments, quenching includes contacting the material with a liquid, e.g., a liquid
 10 soluble in, or at least capable of penetrating into the material and reacting with the
    radicals, such as a diene, such as 1,5-cyclooctadiene. In some specific embodiments, the
    quenching includes contacting the material with an antioxidant, such as Vitamin E.
            Other methods for quenching are possible. For example, any method for
    quenching radicals in polymeric materials described in Muratoglu et al., U.S. Patent
 is Application Publication No. 2008/0067724 and Muratoglu et al., U.S. Patent No.
    7,166,650, can be utilized for quenching any ionized material described herein.
    Furthermore any quenching agent (described as a "sensitizing agent" in the above-noted
    Muratoglu disclosures) and/or any antioxidant described in either Muratoglu reference
    can be utilized to quench any ionized material.
 ?0         Functionalization can be enhanced by utilizing heavy charged ions, such as any of
    the heavier ions described herein. For example, if it is desired to enhance oxidation,
    charged oxygen ions can be utilized for the irradiation. If nitrogen functional groups are
    desired, nitrogen ions or ions that includes nitrogen can be utilized. Likewise, if sulfur or
    phosphorus groups are desired, sulfur or phosphorus ions can be used in the irradiation.
25          After quenching, any of the quenched materials described herein can be further
    treated with one or more of radiation, such as ionizing or non-ionizing radiation,
    sonication, pyrolysis, and oxidation for additional molecular and/or supramolecular
    structure change.
30
                                                   11

    Particle Beam Exposure in Fluids
             In some cases, the substrate materials can be exposed to a particle beam in the
    presence of one or more additional fluids (e.g., gases and/or liquids). Exposure of a
    material to a particle beam in the presence of one or more additional fluids can increase
  5 the efficiency of the treatment.
             In some embodiments, the material is exposed to a particle beam in the presence
    of a fluid such as air. Accelerated particles are coupled out of the accelerator via an
    output port (e.g., a thin membrane such as a metal foil), pass through a volume of space
    occupied by the fluid, and are then incident on the material. In addition to directly
 10 treating the material, some of the particles generate additional chemical species by
    interacting with fluid particles (e.g., ions and/or radicals generated from various
    constituents of air, such as ozone and oxides of nitrogen). These generated chemical
    species can also interact with the material; for example, any oxidant produced can oxidize
    the material.
 15          In certain embodiments, additional fluids can be selectively introduced into the
    path of a particle beam before the beam is incident on the material. As discussed above,
    reactions between the particles of the beam and the particles of the introduced fluids can
    generate additional chemical species, which react with the material and can assist in
    functionalizing the material, and/or otherwise selectively altering certain properties of the
 ?o material. The one or more additional fluids can be directed into the path of the beam
    from a supply tube, for example. The direction and flow rate of the fluid(s) that is/are
    introduced can be selected according to a desired exposure rate and/or direction to control
    the efficiency of the overall treatment, including effects that result from both particle
    based treatment and effects that are due to the interaction of dynamically generated
25  species from the introduced fluid with the material. In addition to air, exemplary fluids
    that can be introduced into the ion beam include oxygen, nitrogen, one or more noble
    gases, one or more halogens, and hydrogen.
    Radiation Treatment
30           Radiation can be applied to material that is dry or wet, or even dispersed in a
    liquid, such as water, and can be applied while the material is exposed to air, oxygen
                                                    12

    enriched air, or even oxygen itself, or blanketed by an inert gas such as nitrogen, argon,
    or helium. When maximum oxidation is desired, an oxidizing environment is utilized,
    such as air or oxygen.
            Radiation may be applied under a pressure of greater than about 2.5 atmospheres,
  5 such as greater than 5, 10, 15, 20 or even greater than about 50 atmospheres.
            In some embodiments, energy deposited in a material that releases an electron
    from its atomic orbital is used to irradiate the materials. The radiation may be provided
    by 1) heavy charged particles, such as alpha particles or protons, 2) electrons, produced,
    for example, in beta decay or electron beam accelerators, or 3) electromagnetic radiation,
 10 for example, gamma rays, x rays, or ultraviolet rays. In one approach, radiation produced
    by radioactive substances can be used to irradiate the feedstock. In some embodiments,
    any combination in any order or concurrently of (1) through (3) may be utilized. In
    another approach, electromagnetic radiation (e.g., produced using electron beam emitters)
    can be used to irradiate the feedstock. In some instances when chain scission is desirable
 is and/or polymer chain functionalization is desirable, particles heavier than electrons, such
    as protons, helium nuclei, argon ions, silicon ions, neon ions, carbon ions, phosphorus
    ions, oxygen ions or nitrogen ions can be utilized. When ring-opening chain scission is
    desired, positively charged particles can be utilized for their Lewis acid properties for
    enhanced ring-opening chain scission. For example, when oxygen-containing functional
 ?o groups are desired, irradiation in the presence of oxygen or even irradiation with oxygen
    ions can be performed. For example, when nitrogen-containing functional groups are
    desirable, irradiation in the presence of nitrogen or even irradiation with nitrogen ions can
    be performed.
25  Ionizing Radiation
            Each form of radiation ionizes the substrate material via particular interactions, as
    determined by the energy of the radiation. Heavy charged particles primarily ionize
    matter via Coulomb scattering; furthermore, these interactions produce energetic
    electrons that may further ionize matter. Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a
30  helium atom and are produced by the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as
    isotopes of bismuth, polonium, astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such
                                                   13

    as actinium, thorium, uranium, neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and
    plutonium.
            When particles are utilized, they can be neutral (uncharged), positively charged or
    negatively charged. When charged, the charged particles can bear a single positive or
  5 negative charge, or multiple charges, e.g., one, two, three or even four or more charges.
    In instances in which chain scission is desired, positively charged particles may be
    desirable, in part, due to their acidic nature. When particles are utilized, the particles can
    have the mass of a resting electron, or greater, e.g., 500, 1000, 1500, or 2000 or more
    times the mass of a resting electron. For example, the particles can have a mass of from
 i0 about 1 atomic unit to about 150 atomic units, e.g., from about 1 atomic unit to about 50
    atomic units, or from about I to about 25, e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 12 or 15 amu.
    Accelerators used to accelerate the particles can be electrostatic DC, electrodynamic DC,
    RF linear, magnetic induction linear or continuous wave. For example, cyclotron type
    accelerators are available from IBA, Belgium, such as the Rhodotron@ system, while DC
 i5 type accelerators are available from RDI, now IBA Industrial, such as the Dynamitron@.
             Ions and ion accelerators are discussed in Introductory Nuclear Physics, Kenneth
    S. Krane, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (1988), Krsto Prelec, FIZIKA B 6 (1997) 4, 177-206,
    Chu, William T., "Overview of Light-Ion Beam Therapy" Columbus-Ohio, ICRU-IAEA
    Meeting, 18-20 March 2006, Iwata, Y. et al., "Alternating-Phase-Focused IH-DTL for
 ?0 Heavy-Ion Medical Accelerators" Proceedings of EPAC 2006, Edinburgh, Scotland and
    Leaner, C.M. et al., "Status of the Superconducting ECR Ion Source Venus" Proceedings
    of EPAC 2000, Vienna, Austria.
            Gamma radiation has the advantage of a significant penetration depth into a
    variety of materials. Sources of gamma rays include radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes
25  of cobalt, calcium, technicium, chromium, gallium, indium, iodine, iron, krypton,
    samarium, selenium, sodium, thalium, and xenon.
            Sources of x rays include electron beam collision with metal targets, such as
    tungsten or molybdenum or alloys, or compact light sources, such as those produced
    commercially by Lyncean.
30          Sources for ultraviolet radiation include deuterium or cadmium lamps.
                                                    14

            Sources for infrared radiation include sapphire, zinc, or selenide window ceramic
    lamps.
            Sources for microwaves include klystrons, Slevin type RF sources, or atom beam
    sources that employ hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen gases.
  5 Electron Beam
            In some embodiments, a beam of electrons is used as the radiation source. A
    beam of electrons has the advantages of high dose rates (e.g., 1, 5, or even 10 Mrad per
    second), high throughput, less containment, and less confinement equipment. Electrons
    can also be more efficient at causing chain scission. In addition, electrons having
 10 energies of 4-10 MeV can have a penetration depth of 5 to 30 mm or more, such as 40
    mm.
            Electron beams can be generated, e.g., by electrostatic generators, cascade
    generators, transformer generators, low energy accelerators with a scanning system, low
    energy accelerators with a linear cathode, linear accelerators, and pulsed accelerators.
 15 Electrons as an ionizing radiation source can be useful, e.g., for relatively thin piles of
    materials, e.g., less than 0.5 inch, e.g., less than 0.4 inch, 0.3 inch, 0.2 inch, or less than
    0.1 inch. In some embodiments, the energy of each electron of the electron beam is from
    about 0.3 MeV to about 2.0 MeV (million electron volts), e.g., from about 0.5 MeV to
    about 1.5 MeV, or from about 0.7 MeV to about 1.25 MeV.
 ?0         Electron beam irradiation devices may be procured commercially from Ion Beam
    Applications, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium or the Titan Corporation, San Diego, CA.
    Typical electron energies can be 1 MeV, 2 MeV, 4.5 MeV, 7.5 MeV, or 10 MeV.
    Typical electron beam irradiation device power can be 1 kW, 5 kW, 10 kW, 20 kW, 50
    kW, 100 kW, 250 kW, or 500 kW. Typical doses may take values of 1 kGy, 5 kGy, 10
25  kGy, 20 kGy, 50 kGy, 100 kGy, or 200 kGy.
    Ion Particle Beams
            Particles heavier than electrons can be utilized to irradiate any of the substrate
    materials described herein. For example, protons, helium nuclei, argon ions, silicon ions,
    neon ions carbon ions, phoshorus ions, oxygen ions or nitrogen ions can be utilized. In
30  some embodiments, particles heavier than electrons can induce higher amounts of chain
                                                     15

    scission (relative to lighter particles). In some instances, positively charged particles can
    induce higher amounts of chain scission than negatively charged particles due to their
    acidity.
             Heavier particle beams can be generated, e.g., using linear accelerators or
  5 cyclotrons. In some embodiments, the energy of each particle of the beam is from about
    1.0 MeV/atomic unit to about 6,000 MeV/atomic unit, e.g., from about 3 MeV/ atomic
    unit to about 4,800 MeV/atomic unit, or from about 10 MeV/atomic unit to about 1,000
    MeV/atomic unit.
             In certain embodiments, ion beams can include more than one type of ion. For
 i0 example, ion beams can include mixtures of two or more (e.g., three, four or more)
    different types of ions. Exemplary mixtures can include carbon ions and protons, carbon
    ions and oxygen ions, nitrogen ions and protons, and iron ions and protons. More
    generally, mixtures of any of the ions discussed above (or any other ions) can be used to
    form irradiating ion beams. In particular, mixtures of relatively light and relatively
 is heavier ions can be used in a single ion beam.
             In some embodiments, ion beams for irradiating materials include positively
    charged ions. The positively charged ions can include, for example, positively charged
    hydrogen ions (e.g., protons), noble gas ions (e.g., helium, neon, argon), carbon ions,
    nitrogen ions, oxygen ions, silicon atoms, phosphorus ions, and metal ions such as
 ?0 sodium ions, calcium ions, and/or iron ions. Without wishing to be bound by any theory,
    it is believed that such positively-charged ions behave chemically as Lewis acid moieties
    when exposed to materials, initiating and sustaining cationic ring-opening chain scission
    reactions in an oxidative environment.
             In certain embodiments, ion beams for irradiating materials include negatively
25  charged ions. Negatively charged ions can include, for example, negatively charged
    hydrogen ions (e.g., hydride ions), and negatively charged ions of various relatively
    electronegative nuclei (e.g., oxygen ions, nitrogen ions, carbon ions, silicon ions, and
    phosphorus ions). Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that such
    negatively-charged ions behave chemically as Lewis base moieties when exposed to
30  materials, causing anionic ring-opening chain scission reactions in a reducing
    environment.
                                                    16

             In some embodiments, beams for irradiating materials can include neutral atoms.
    For example, any one or more of hydrogen atoms, helium atoms, carbon atoms, nitrogen
    atoms, oxygen atoms, neon atoms, silicon atoms, phosphorus atoms, argon atoms, and
    iron atoms can be included in beams that are used for irradiation of biomass materials. In
  5 general, mixtures of any two or more of the above types of atoms (e.g., three or more,
    four or more, or even more) can be present in the beams.
             In certain embodiments, ion beams used to irradiate materials include singly
    charged ions such as one or more of H -, H-, He', New, Ar, C', C-, O, 0-, N, N, Si+, Si-,
    P , P-, Na+, Ca+, and Fe+. In some embodiments, ion beams can include multiply-charged
 10 ions such as one or more of C2 +,C3 +, C4 +, N3 +, N5 , N 3-, O2, 02-, 022, Si2 , Si 4 + Si2-, and
    Si4-. In general, the ion beams can also include more complex polynuclear ions that bear
    multiple positive or negative charges. In certain embodiments, by virtue of the structure
    of the polynuclear ion, the positive or negative charges can be effectively distributed over
    substantially the entire structure of the ions. In some embodiments, the positive or
 i5 negative charges can be somewhat localized over portions of the structure of the ions.
    Electromagnetic Radiation
             In embodiments in which the irradiating is performed with electromagnetic
    radiation, the electromagnetic radiation can have, e.g., energy per photon (in electron
    volts) of greater than 102 eV, e.g., greater than 103, 104 , 105, 106, or even greater than 107
 ?0 eV. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has energy per photon of
    between 104 and 107 , e.g., between 105 and 106 eV. The electromagnetic radiation can
    have a frequency of, e.g., greater than 1016 Hz, greater than 1017 Hz, 1018, 10      9, 102,   or
    even greater than 1021 Hz. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has a
    frequency of between 1018 and 1022 Hz, e.g., between 1019 to 1021 Hz.
25  Doses
             In some instances, the irradiation is performed at a dosage rate of greater than
    about 0.25 Mrad per second, e.g., greater than about 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, or even
    greater than about 2.5 Mrad per second. In some embodiments, the irradiating is
    performed at a dose rate of between 5.0 and 1500.0 kilorads/hour, e.g., between 10.0 and
30  750.0 kilorads/hour or between 50.0 and 350.0 kilorads/hour.
                                                    17

             In some embodiments, the irradiating (with any radiation source or a combination
    of sources) is performed until the material receives a dose of at least 0.1 Mrad, at least
    0.25 Mrad, e.g., at least 1.0 Mrad, at least 2.5 Mrad, at least 5.0 Mrad, at least 10.0 Mrad,
    at least 60 Mrad or at least 100 Mrad. In some embodiments, the irradiating is performed
  5 until the material receives a dose of from about 0.1 Mrad to about 500 Mrad, from about
    0.5 Mrad to about 200 Mrad, from about 1 Mrad to about 100 Mrad, or from about 5
    Mrad to about 60 Mrad. In some embodiments, a relatively low dose of radiation is
    applied, e.g., less than 60 Mrad.
    Pyrolysis, Oxidation and Chemical Functionalization
 10          Functionalization can also be achieved by other means, for example by pyrolysis
    and/or oxidation. Pyrolysis and oxidation of biomass is described at length in USSN
    12/417,840, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. In some cases
    similar methods may be used with the substrate materials described herein.
             Methods of functionalizing inorganic materials are well known in the art.
 15 Examples of such methods include the techniques disclosed in "Soluble Carbon
    Nanotubes," Tasis et al., Chem. Eur. J. 2003, 9, 4000-4008, and "Entrapping Enzyme in
    a Functionalized Nanoporous Support," J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2002, 124, 11242-11243, the
    disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.
    Sonication
 ?0          In some cases, the material may also be sonicated, e.g., to increase porosity, e.g.,
    using the sonication systems described in USSN 12/417,840, incorporated by reference
    above.
    Other Processes
             Functionalization may be accomplished using other techniques, e.g., chemical
25  functionalization. In some cases, Fenton chemistry may be utilized, e.g., as described in
    U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/147,377, the full disclosure of which is
    incorporated by reference herein.
                                                   18

    BIOPROCESSES UTILIZING THE SUBSTRATE MATERIALS
    Saccharification
             The substrate materials described herein can be used to enhance a saccharification
    reaction. In saccharification, cellulose in a feedstock, e.g., a biomass material, is
  5 hydrolyzed to low molecular carbohydrates, such as sugars, by a saccharifying agent,
    e.g., an enzyme. The materials that include the cellulose are treated with the enzyme,
    e.g., by combining the material and the enzyme in a liquid medium, e.g., in an aqueous
    solution.
             This reaction can be enhanced by immobilizing the enzyme or other saccharifying
 i0 agent on the substrate materials described herein.
             Enzymes and biomass-destroying organisms that break down biomass, such as the
    cellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass, contain or manufacture various
    cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases), ligninases or various small molecule biomass
    destroying metabolites. These enzymes may be a complex of enzymes that act
 i5 synergistically to degrade crystalline cellulose or the lignin portions of biomass.
    Examples of cellulolytic enzymes include: endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and
    cellobiases (0-glucosidases). During saccharification, a cellulosic substrate is initially
    hydrolyzed by endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric intermediates.
    These intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting glucanases such as
 ?0 cellobiohydrolase to produce cellobiose from the ends of the cellulose polymer.
    Cellobiose is a water-soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally cellobiase cleaves
    cellobiose to yield glucose.
             A cellulase is capable of degrading biomass and may be of fungal or bacterial
    origin. Suitable enzymes include cellulases from the genera Bacillus, Pseudomonas,
25  Humicola, Fusarium, Thielavia, Acremonium, Chrysosporium and Trichoderma, and
    include species of Humicola, Coprinus, Thielavia, Fusarium,Myceliophthora,
    Acremonium, Cephalosporium,Scytalidium, Penicillium or Aspergillus (see, e.g., EP
    458162), especially those produced by a strain selected from the species Humicola
    insolens (reclassified as Scytalidium thermophilum, see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,435,307),
30  Coprinus cinereus, Fusariumoxysporum, Myceliophthorathermophila,Meripilus
    giganteus, Thielavia terrestris,Acremonium sp., Acremonium persicinum, Acremonium
                                                   19

    acremonium, Acremonium brachypenium, Acremonium dichromosporum,Acremonium
    obclavatum, Acremonium pinkertoniae,Acremonium roseogriseum, Acremonium
    incoloratum, and Acremoniumfuratum; preferably from the species Humicola insolens
    DSM 1800, Fusarium oxysporum DSM 2672, Myceliophthora thermophila CBS 117.65,
  5 Cephalosporiumsp. RYM-202, Acremonium sp. CBS 478.94, Acremonium sp. CBS
    265.95, Acremonium persicinum CBS 169.65, Acremonium acremonium AHU 9519,
    Cephalosporiumsp. CBS 535.71, Acremonium brachypenium CBS 866.73, Acremonium
    dichromosporum CBS 683.73, Acremonium obclavatum CBS 311.74, Acremonium
    pinkertoniae CBS 157.70, Acremonium roseogriseum CBS 134.56, Acremonium
 10 incoloratum CBS 146.62, and Acremoniumfuratum CBS 299.70H. Cellulolytic enzymes
    may also be obtained from Chrysosporium, preferably a strain of Chrysosporium
    lucknowense. Additionally, Trichoderma (particularlyTrichoderma viride, Trichoderma
    reesei, and Trichoderma koningii), alkalophilicBacillus (see, for example, U.S. Patent
    No. 3,844,890 and EP 458162), and Streptomyces (see, e.g., EP 458162) may be used.
 is          Suitable cellobiases include a cellobiase from Aspergillus niger sold under the
    tradename NOVOZYME 188TM.
             Enzyme complexes may be utilized, such as those available from Genencor under
    the tradename ACCELLERASE@, for example, Accellerase@ 1500 enzyme complex.
    Accellerase 1500 enzyme complex contains multiple enzyme activities, mainly
 ?0 exoglucanase, endoglucanase (2200-2800 CMC U/g), hemi-cellulase, and beta
    glucosidase (525-775 pNPG U/g), and has a pH of 4.6 to 5.0. The endoglucanase activity
    of the enzyme complex is expressed in carboxymethylcellulose activity units (CMC U),
    while the beta-glucosidase activity is reported in pNP-glucoside activity units (pNPG U).
    In one embodiment, a blend of Accellerase@ 1500 enzyme complex and NOVOZYMETM
25  188 cellobiase is used.
             The saccharification process can be partially or completely performed in a tank
    (e.g., a tank having a volume of at least 4000, 40,000, or 400,000 L) in a manufacturing
    plant, and/or can be partially or completely performed in transit, e.g., in a rail car, tanker
    truck, or in a supertanker or the hold of a ship. The time required for complete
30  saccharification will depend on the process conditions and the feedstock and enzyme
    used. If saccharification is performed in a manufacturing plant under controlled
                                                   20

    conditions, the cellulose may be substantially entirely converted to glucose in about 12
    96 hours. If saccharification is performed partially or completely in transit,
    saccharification may take longer. The addition of surfactants can enhance the rate of
    saccharification. Examples of surfactants include non-ionic surfactants, such as a
  5 Tween@ 20 or Tween@ 80 polyethylene glycol surfactants, ionic surfactants, or
    amphoteric surfactants.
            It is generally preferred that the concentration of the resulting glucose solution be
    relatively high, e.g., greater than 40%, or greater than 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or even greater
    than 95% by weight. This reduces the volume to be shipped, and also inhibits microbial
 10 growth in the solution. However, lower concentrations may be used, in which case it
    may be desirable to add an antimicrobial additive, e.g., a broad spectrum antibiotic, in a
    low concentration, e.g., 50 to 150 ppm. Other suitable antibiotics include amphotericin
    B, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, hygromycin B, kanamycin,
    neomycin, penicillin, puromycin, streptomycin. Antibiotics will inhibit growth of
 i5 microorganisms during transport and storage, and can be used at appropriate
    concentrations, e.g., between 15 and 1000 ppm by weight, e.g., between 25 and 500 ppm,
    or between 50 and 150 ppm. If desired, an antibiotic can be included even if the sugar
    concentration is relatively high.
            A relatively high concentration solution can be obtained by limiting the amount of
 ?0 water added to the feedstock with the enzyme. The concentration can be controlled, e.g.,
    by controlling how much saccharification takes place. For example, concentration can be
    increased by adding more feedstock to the solution. In order to keep the sugar that is
    being produced in solution, a surfactant can be added, e.g., one of those discussed above.
    Solubility can also be increased by increasing the temperature of the solution. For
25  example, the solution can be maintained at a temperature of 40-50 0 C, 60-80 0 C, or even
    higher.
    Fermentation
            Microorganisms can produce a number of useful intermediates and products, such
    as those described herein, by fermenting a low molecular weight sugar in the presence of
30  the functionalized substrate materials. For example, fermentation or other bioprocesses
                                                   21

    can produce alcohols, organic acids, hydrocarbons, hydrogen, proteins or mixtures of any
    of these materials.
            The microorganism can be a natural microorganism or an engineered
    microorganism. For example, the microorganism can be a bacterium, e.g., a cellulolytic
  5 bacterium, a fungus, e.g., a yeast, a plant or a protist, e.g., an algae, a protozoa or a
    fungus-like protist, e.g., a slime mold. When the organisms are compatible, mixtures of
    organisms can be utilized.
            Suitable fermenting microorganisms have the ability to convert carbohydrates,
    such as glucose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, oligosaccharides or
 10 polysaccharides into fermentation products. Fermenting microorganisms include strains
    of the genus Sacchromyces spp. e.g., Sacchromyces cerevisiae (baker's yeast),
    Saccharomyces distaticus,Saccharomyces uvarum; the genus Kluyveromyces, e.g.,
    species Kluyveromyces marxianus, Kluyveromycesfragilis; the genus Candida, e.g.,
    Candidapseudotropicalis,and Candida brassicae,Pichia stipitis (a relative of Candida
 is shehatae,the genus Clavispora,e.g., species Clavispora lusitaniaeand Clavispora
    opuntiaethe genus Pachysolen, e.g., species Pachysolen tannophilus, the genus
    Bretannomyces, e.g., species Bretannomyces clausenii(Philippidis, G. P., 1996,
    Cellulose bioconversion technology, in Handbook on Bioethanol: Production and
    Utilization, Wyman, C.E., ed., Taylor & Francis, Washington, DC, 179-212).
 ?0         Commercially available yeasts include, for example, Red Star@/Lesaffre Ethanol
    Red (available from Red Star/Lesaffre, USA) FALI* (available from Fleischmann's
    Yeast, a division of Bums Philip Food Inc., USA), SUPERSTART* (available from
    Alltech, now Lalemand), GERT STRAND* (available from Gert Strand AB, Sweden)
    and FERMOL* (available from DSM Specialties).
25          Bacteria may also be used in fermentation, e.g., Zymomonas mobilis and
    Clostridium thermocellum (Philippidis, 1996, supra).
            The optimum pH for yeast is from about pH 4 to 5, while the optimum pH for
    Zymomonas bacteria is from about pH 5 to 6. Typical fermentation times are about 24 to
    96 hours with temperatures in the range of 26 'C to 40 'C, however thermophilic
30  microorganisms prefer higher temperatures.
                                                   22

             In some embodiments, all or a portion of the fermentation process can be
    interrupted before the low molecular weight sugar is completely converted to ethanol.
    The intermediate fermentation products include high concentrations of sugar and
    carbohydrates. These intermediate fermentation products can be used in preparation of
  5 food for human or animal consumption. Additionally or alternatively, the intermediate
    fermentation products can be ground to a fine particle size in a stainless-steel laboratory
    mill to produce a flour-like substance.
             Mobile fermentors can be utilized, as described in U.S. Provisional Patent
    Application Serial 60/832,735, now Published International Application No. WO
 10 2008/011598.
    POST-PROCESSING
    Distillation
             After fermentation, the resulting fluids can be distilled using, for example, a "beer
    column" to separate ethanol and other alcohols from the majority of water and residual
 is solids. The vapor exiting the beer column can be, e.g., 35% by weight ethanol and can be
    fed to a rectification column. A mixture of nearly azeotropic (92.5%) ethanol and water
    from the rectification column can be purified to pure (99.5%) ethanol using vapor-phase
    molecular sieves. The beer column bottoms can be sent to the first effect of a three-effect
    evaporator. The rectification column reflux condenser can provide heat for this first
 ?0 effect. After the first effect, solids can be separated using a centrifuge and dried in a
    rotary dryer. A portion (25%) of the centrifuge effluent can be recycled to fermentation
    and the rest sent to the second and third evaporator effects. Most of the evaporator
    condensate can be returned to the process as fairly clean condensate with a small portion
    split off to waste water treatment to prevent build-up of low-boiling compounds.
25  INTERMEDIATES AND PRODUCTS
             The processes described herein can be used to produce one or more intermediates
    or products, such as energy, fuels, foods and materials. Specific examples of products
    include, but are not limited to, hydrogen, alcohols (e.g., monohydric alcohols or dihydric
    alcohols, such as ethanol, n-propanol or n-butanol), hydrated or hydrous alcohols, e.g.,
                                                    23

    containing greater than 10%, 20%, 30% or even greater than 40% water, xylitol, sugars,
    biodiesel, organic acids (e.g., acetic acid and/or lactic acid), hydrocarbons, co-products
    (e.g., proteins, such as cellulolytic proteins (enzymes) or single cell proteins), and
    mixtures of any of these in any combination or relative concentration, and optionally in
  5 combination with any additives, e.g., fuel additives. Other examples include carboxylic
    acids, such as acetic acid or butyric acid, salts of a carboxylic acid, a mixture of
    carboxylic acids and salts of carboxylic acids and esters of carboxylic acids (e.g., methyl,
    ethyl and n-propyl esters), ketones (e.g., acetone), aldehydes (e.g., acetaldehyde), alpha,
    beta unsaturated acids, such as acrylic acid and olefins, such as ethylene. Other alcohols
 10 and alcohol derivatives include propanol, propylene glycol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,3
    propanediol, methyl or ethyl esters of any of these alcohols. Other products include
    methyl acrylate, methylmethacrylate, lactic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, succinic
    acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, a salt of any of the acids and a mixture of any of the acids
    and respective salts.
 15           Other intermediates and products, including food and pharmaceutical products,
    are described in U.S. Serial No. 12/417,900, the full disclosure of which is hereby
    incorporated by reference herein.
                                   OTHER EMBODIMENTS
             A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it
 ?0 will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the
    spirit and scope of the invention.
             For example, the fibers can be in any desired form, and can have a variety of
    different morphologies. Generally, it is desirable that the fibrous material have a high
    surface area. In some cases, the fibers may be incorporated into single or multi-layer
25  sheets, e.g., the fibers may be part of a HEPA filter or the like. The sheet material can
    have a surface area of, for example, from about 1 to 500 m 2/g. The fibrous material can
    be overlaid, e.g., meltblown, folded, in the form of a screen or mesh, or provided in other
    geometries. The fibers may be extruded or coextruded.
             The fibers may have any desired particle size, from nano-scale, e.g., less than
30  about 1000 nm, e.g., less than 500 nm, 250 nm, 100 nm, 50 nm, 25 nm, or even less than
                                                    24

   1 nm, to large particle sizes, e.g., greater than 100 microns, 200 microns, 500 microns or
   even 1000 microns, or agglomerates of particles.
           The fibers or a fibrous material containing the fibers may be pretreated with a
   microorganism and/or enzyme, and/or the fibers or fibrous material can be contacted with
 5 a microoganism and/or enzyme during a bioprocess such as saccharification or
   fermentation.
           While inorganic and synthetic substrate materials have been discussed herein,
   these materials may be combined with other substrate materials, for example the biomass
   substrates disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/252,293, filed October 16,
10 2009, the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
           As discussed above, enzymes can be immobilized on the fibers, instead of or in
   addition to microorganisms.
           Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
                                                   25

                                                       26
CLAIMS
          1.     A method of saccharifying a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material comprising
contacting (i) a saccharifying agent that is immobilized on fibers or particles of an inorganic material
with (ii) a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material to saccharify the cellulosic or lignocellulosic
material,
          wherein the saccharifying agent is an enzyme or microorganism,
          wherein the inorganic material has been functionalized with carboxylic acid groups by
irradiating the inorganic material with ionizing radiation and
          wherein the immobilization is due to interaction between functional groups on the fibers or
particles and functional groups on the saccharifying agent.
          2.     The method of claim 1 wherein the saccharifying agent comprises an enzyme.
          3.     The method of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the particles comprise a synthetic material.
          4.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the particles or fibers have a
Brunauer-Emmet-Teller (BET) surface area of greater than 100 m 2/g.
          5.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the particles or fibers comprise a
material selected from the group consisting of calcium carbonate, aragonite clay, orthorhombic clays,
calcite clay, rhombohedral clays, kaolin, bentonite clay, dicalcium phosphate, tricalcium phosphate,
calcium pyrophosphate, insoluble sodium metaphosphate, magnesium orthophosphate, trimagnesium
phosphate, hydroxyapatites, synthetic apatites, alumina, hydrated alumina, silica xerogel, metal
aluminosilicate complexes, sodium aluminum silicates, zirconium silicate, silicon dioxide graphite,
wollastonite, mica, glass, fiber glass, silica, talc, carbon fibers, conductive carbon black, ceramic
powders and ceramic fibers, alumina trihydrate, ground construction waste, ground tire rubber,
lignin, maleated polypropylene, thermoplastic fibers, fluorinated polymers, and mixtures thereof.
          6.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the particles or fibers have a porosity
greater than 70%.
194726501

                                                    27
          7.    The method any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the particles or fibers have a porosity
greater than 90%.
          8.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the particles or fibers are
functionalized with functional groups selected from the group consisting of aldehyde groups, nitroso
groups, nitrile groups, nitro groups, ketone groups, amino groups, alkyl amino groups, alkyl groups,
chloroalkyl groups, chlorofluoroalkyl groups, and enol groups.
          9.    The method any one of claims 1 to 8 further comprising recovering the particles or
fibers after saccharification and reusing the particles in a second, subsequent saccharification
process.
          10.   The method any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the inorganic fibers or particles are
provided in the form of a single or multi-layer sheet.
          11.   The method any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the inorganic fibers or particles are
provided in the form of a fibrous material that is overlaid, folded, or in the form of a screen or mesh.
          12.   The method any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the inorganic fibers or particles are
extruded or coextruded.
          13.   The method any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the particles or fibers have a nano
scale average particle size.
          14.   Cellulosic or lignocellulosic material saccharified by the method of any one of claims
I to 13.
                                               Xyleco, Inc.
                        Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                       SPRUSON & FERGUSON
194726501

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
