                                    ABSTRACT
Disclosed are gel compositions suitable for the topical administration of an active
compound having poor solubility and skin penetration, for example, of a COX-2
inhibitor compounds, processes of preparation thereof and methods of use thereof
for the treatment of indications treatable by the active compound

         TRANSDERMAL FORMULATION CONTAINING COX INHIBITORS
                                              Technical field
  5
    The present invention is related to transdermal formulations containing COX-inhibitors.
    Transdermal formulations, e.g., gels, are important and useful for delivering pharmaceutically
    active compounds.      Such formulations offer a possibility for administering medicines to
    patients who have difficulty in swallowing oral formulations or in cases when prolonged
 10 parenteral medication should be replaced. Such formulations furthermore offer the possibility
    of localized administration of the medicament thus preventing side effects and are suitable for
    the administration of active ingredients which are metabolized rapidly and extensively
    subsequent to oral administration. Especially there is a need for transdermal gel formulations
    that   deliver  active   compounds      that   are   anti-inflammatory      and/or  pain   relieving
 15 pharmaceutically active compounds, e.g., COX inhibitors, or selective COX inhibitors, e.g.,
    COX-2 inhibitors, preferably, celecoxib, deracoxib, valdecoxib, rofecoxib, tilmacoxib, or
    other similar known compounds, especially celecoxib, including its various known crystalline
    forms and various salts thereof, e.g., crystalline forms I, II, III, IV and N.
 ?0
                                          Background of the invention
25
            Transdermal    pharmaceutical     formulations     are   characterized   in  vitro  by   the
    measurement of the permeation of the active ingredient through natural or artificial
    membranes or in vivo by skin penetration studies. Such a measurement method and apparatus
    developed are disclosed in W02010089619.

            The delivery of COX-2 inhibitors, especially topically, has many challenges, as these
   compounds have a very low solubility, high melting point, and low penetration potential in
   known topical formulations that have acceptable organoleptic (sensory) characteristics.
            There is a need that the formulation exhibit suitable skin penetration to achieve the
 5 required therapeutical objective and advantageous organoleptic properties, such as suitable
   consistency without adherence (sticking) to the skin or clothing, appropriate viscosity,
   agreeable odour and good spreadability.
           There is furthermore a need for the formulation to have good physical-chemical
   stability, especially in the cold, and microbiological stability. In case of low-solubility active
10 ingredient, such as celecoxib, the formulation should also improve the solubility of the active
   ingredient. Moreover, said formulations should be easily manufacturable on an industrial
   scale.
           For example, during the reproduction of the experiments of Soliman and co-workers
15 (S.M.Soliman, N.S.Abdel-Malak, O.N.El-Gazayerly, A.A.Abdel-Rehim:                 Formulation of
   microemulsion gel systems for transdermal delivery of celecoxib: In vitro permeation, anti
   inflammatory activity and skin irritation tests. [DrugDisc&Ther.2010;              4(6):459-471.],
   although technically a gel was obtained, the product was not suitable for product development
   due to thermal instability and unsatisfactory consistence due to high stickiness.
20
                                       Summary of the invention
25         Applicants have found a solution to the above discussed challenges to the topical
   delivery of COX-2 inhibitors by the use of a formulation that has excellent organoleptic
   characteristics, while also providing for good skin penetration and suitable stability.
           Accordingly, the transdermal formulation according to the present invention is a gel
   composition which comprises an active ingredient which is a COX inhibitor, preferably a
30 selective COX-2 inhibitor, a solubilizer, a wetting agent, a gel forming agent, a volatile
                                                   2

   siloxane agent and a solvent. Optionally, the formulation may also contain a permeation
   enhancing agent and a precipitating agent.
           The drugs preferred in the formulations according to the present invention are selective
 5 COX-2 inhibitors, which are known to be useful for treating inflammation, colorectal polyps
   (because they have effects on abnormally dividing cells such as those of precancerous
   colorectal polyps), menstrual cramps, sports injuries, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and
   pain, e.g., acute pain, and for reducing the risk of peptic ulceration. The embodiments of the
   invention are suitable for use with crystalline or amorphous forms of active ingredients. The
10 preferred drug of the formulations is Celecoxib, which is a selective COX-2 inhibitor having
   about    7.6-times   higher affinity towards COX-2        than towards    COX-1.      Thus the
   antiinflammatory activity of celecoxib is only rarely accompanied with gastrointestinal side
   effects which are often experienced with non-selective non-steroidal antiinflammatory active
   ingredients.
15         The invention also includes the use of the formulations for the indications known for
   the active ingredient.    For example, a method of treating inflammation, colorectal polyps,
   menstrual cramps, sports injuries, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and pain, e.g., acute
   pain, and of reducing the risk of peptic ulceration, by administering a composition disclosed
   herein topically is included in the invention.
20         The advantage of the formulation according to the present invention resides in that it
   provides a way for convenient local administration of a stabile COX-2 inhibitor medicament,
   for example, for relieving pain while preventing side effects which may occur subsequent to
   oral administration.
25
                                       Description of the embodiments
           The formulation according to the present invention contains the following ingredients
   in the following amounts (the amounts and percentages of amounts discussed in the present
30 application are by weight, based on the composition as a whole unless indicated otherwise):
                                                    3

           I)      an active compound, e.g., a COX inhibitor, preferably a COX-2 inhibitor, e.g.,
   celecoxib, deracoxib, valdecoxib, rofecoxib, and/or tilmacoxib, especially celecoxib, and
   particularly preferably a crystalline form thereof. The active ingredient is preferably in a
   particulate form.    Although the active ingredient does not have to be micronized, but in
 5 preferred embodiments, micronized forms are advantageous to further enhance the solubility
   of the active ingredient. Nevertheless it is possible to produce delivery systems according to
   the present invention wherein the active ingredient is partly or fully dissolved.
           The amount of active compound, e.g., of celecoxib, should be 0.5-10%, preferably 1
   6%, more preferably 1.5-5%, and especially preferably about 2%.
10         II)     a compound or a natural mixture capable of enhancing the penetration of the
   active ingredient, e.g. celecoxib may be present, including but not limited to menthol, thymol,
   essential oils such as lavender oil or kernel oils, such as almond oil and vegetable oils etc. The
   presence of a penetration enhancing agent is preferred.
           Terpene compounds may also be useful as penetration enhancers, such as isoborneol,
15 irone, ocimene, carveol, carvotanacetone, carvomenthone, carvone, carene, carone, camphene,
   camphor, geraniol, cymene, sabinene, safranal, cyclocitral, citral, citronellal, citronellic acid,
   citronellol, cineole, sylvestrene, thujyl alcohol, thujone, terpineol, terpinene, terpinolene,
   tricyclene, nerol, pinene, pinocampheol, pinol, piperitenone, phellandral, phellandrene,
   fenchene, fenchyl alcohol, perillyl alcohol, perillyl aldehyde, borneol, myrcene, menthol,
20 menthone, ionol, ionone, linalool, or limonene. Essential oils containing such compounds can
   also be used.
           Considerations in the selection of the compound, an essential oil or natural mixture
   should be concerns of allergies, aroma, e.g., bad smell versus pleasant smell, the potential of
   the compound to irritate the skin, potential in causing adverse effects etc. Preferred among the
25 options is menthol and lavender oil, especially menthol.
           The amount of the penetration enhancing compound e.g., of menthol or lavender oil,
   especially menthol, is 0.5-10%, preferably 0.7-5%, more preferably 1-2%, and especially
   preferably about 1%.
                                                     4

           a solubilizer, or a solubilizer system having at least two solubilizer components.
   Solubilizers are well known in the state of the art. Applicants have found that in the
   formulation according to the present invention, the solubilizers can be preferably selected
   from polyethylene glycols, sorbitol esters with fatty acids, pegylated sorbitol esters with fatty
 5 acids (polysorbates), polyethylene glycol alkylethers, polyoxyethylene and polyoxypropylene
   block polymers and silicone alkyl glycols.
           When a solubilizer system having at least two solubilizer components is used, the
   solubilizing ability of the system is generally significantly improved over the use of a single
   solubilizer. Solubilizers having large hydrophilic-lipophilic balance (HLB) values, i.e., above
10  10, preferably above 12, e.g., 13, and more preferably about 14-20, have been found to be
   particularly useful. As an example, the solubilizers Tween 60, Brij-58, Kolliphor P-407 can
   be used as a single solubilizer or as components of a solubilizer system in the formulation
   according to the present invention.
           Applicants have found that a solubilizer known as Brij-58, also known as polyethylene
15 glycol hexadecyl ether or polyoxyethylene (20) cetyl ether, is particularly suitable for the
   solubility enhancement of COX-2 inhibitor compounds, especially of celecoxib.
           The amount of Brij-58 is in the range of 3-25%, preferably 4-15%, more preferably 5
    10%, and especially preferably about 7%.
           In one embodiment of the invention, the solubilizer used in the formulation is Brij-58.
 0         It is particularly advantageous to use of the combination of Brij-58 with Kolliphor
   P407, which is also known as Poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(propylene glycol)-block
   poly(ethylene glycol). Said combination results in enhanced solubilizing effect, especially in
   an increase in the physical stability of the formulation wherein the active ingredient is in the
   dissolved state, and is unexpectedly better for such formulations than other solubilizers alone
25 or in combination, for example, the combination of Tween 60 and ethanol. Further
   advantageous combinations of solubilizers include but are not limited to the combination of
   polyethylene glycol 1000 (PEG 1000) and Brij-58 and PEG 1000, Brij-58 and Kolliphor P407.
           Alternate combinations include Tween 60, which is also known as Polyoxyethylene
   (20) sorbitan monostearate, with either Brij-58 or Kolliphor P407, or other combinations
                                                   5

    where both solubilizers have HLB values above 10, preferably above 12, e.g., 13, and more
    preferably about 14-20.
            An additional advantage of Kolliphor P407 is its ability to act as a thickening agent
    and/or gel binder.
  5         Solubilizers that may additionally be included in the solubilizer system are Span 60
    and Emulsifier 10. Some of the solubilizers known from the prior art have been found
    inadequate alone in enhancing the solubility of the active compounds to the desired extent, but
    may provide some benefit when in combination with a solubilizer having a high HLB value.
            When a combination of solubilizers or a solubilizer system is used, the amount of an
 10 individual component thereof can be approximately the same as when used alone. As such,
    the amount of Brij-58 in the solubilizer system is the same as when used alone.
            The amount of each of the solubilizers in the system can be the same. For example, the
    amount of Kolliphor P407 in the combination or even when used alone is in the range of 3
    25%, preferably 4-15%, more preferably 5-10%, and especially preferably about 7%.
 15 The ratio by weight of the each solubilizer in a solubilizer system, for example, when two are
    present, can be from 1:10 to 10:1, preferably 1:5 to 5:1, more preferably 1:2 to 2:1, and
    especially preferably 1:1.
            The combination of Kolliphor P407 and Brij-58, for example, in a 1:1 mixture results
    in increased physical stability of the formulation wherein the active ingredient is in dissolved
 ?0 form.
            IV)     a wetting agent or lubricant, e.g., Polyethylene glycol (PEG). Preferred among
    the PEGs is PEG 1000. However, any PEG 200 to PEG 20,000 may be used. Preferable
    polyethylene glycols are those having a molecular weight equal or less than 1000 and are
    liquids or of semisolid state.
25          PEG 1000 improves the handling properties of the ingredients of the formulation which
    can be dissolved in PEG 1000 even in cold temperatures.                However, increasing the
    concentration of PEG 400 from, for example, 10% to 20% neither improves stability nor
    membrane permeation, and therefore PEG was believed to be not regardable as a solvent, e.g.,
    true solubilizer, in the formulations of the invention. The unexpected increase in the
30  solubilizing effect and membrane permeation is the likely the result of the addition of the
                                                     6

    combination of Kolliphor P407 and Brij-58, which may be even further enhanced, e.g., by
    PEG or other solubilizers and/or wetting agents, and/or the permeation enhancing component,
    such as menthol.
            PEG in addition to serving as a wetting agent, also appears to enhancing the solubility
  5 of the active ingredient, e.g., of celecoxib.
            The amount of PEG, preferably of PEG 1000, is in the range of 2-25%, preferably 5
    20%, more preferably 8-15%, and especially preferably about 10%.
            Other wetting agents in addition or alternate to PEG may be used as long as they
    provide comparable results to PEG in the composition.
 10         V)      a gel forming or thickening agent, preferably Carbopol compounds, preferably
    Carbopol 980, also known as polymerized prop-2-enoic acid ester. Carbopol 980 is a polymer
    that is a highly efficient thickener and is ideal for formulating clear aqueous and hydro
    alcoholic gels.    Other gel forming agents known from the state of the art are possible in
    addition to or alternate to Carbopol 980.
 15         The amount of gel forming agent can be low, as long as sufficient to provide for the
    formation of a gel. For example, for Carbopol 980, the amount is in the range of 0.1-2%,
    preferably 0.2-1.5%, more preferably 0.3-1%, and especially preferably about 0.5%.
            VI)     optionally a precipitation agent or pH adjuster, e.g., a sodium hydroxide
    aqueous solution, provided that such an agent is required for setting a suitable pH range or
 20 precipitation of the gel in conjunction with a specific gel forming agent. Additional or
    alternate precipitation agents may be useful in the formulations. For example, when a
    Carbopol gel forming agent is used, it is possible to use the precipitation agent sodium
    hydroxide (NaOH) solution in order to obtain a gel. In case of other gel forming agents, a
    different precipitating agent known from the state of the art may be necessary. In case of some
25  gel systems, no precipitation agent is required.
            The strength of the precipitation agent or pH adjuster solution can vary, but is
    preferably 10 m/v%.
            The amount of precipitating agent should be sufficient to bring about a pH of 5.5-7.5
    for the gel forming agent swollen in water, and is typically in the range of 0.5-2%, preferably
30  0.7-1.5%, more preferably 0.8-1.2%, and especially preferably about 1%.
                                                     7

           VII)    a volatile siloxane agent, preferably present as a coating on the surface of active
   ingredient particles or preferably a siloxane coating agent system having at least two volatile
   siloxane coating agent components, which are used to coat the active ingredient particles. The
   volatile siloxane coating agent should be highly volatile to be able to evaporate from the skin
 5 upon application.
           W02009007764 and W02010089617 disclose transdermal gel formulations, which are
   dispersions of solid active ingredient particles coated with a highly volatile siloxane or with a
   mixture of such siloxanes in aqueous gels. The siloxanes as defined regarding their volatility
   and     which      are    disclosed   in    these   applications,    i.e.,   hexamethyldisiloxane,
10 octamethyltrisiloxane and decamethylcyclopentasiloxane, are useful in the present invention
   for the coating of active compound particles.           Other compounds capable of coating a
   particulate ingredient and evaporating upon application to the skin are also useful instead of
   the above siloxane compounds. Particularly advantageous volatile siloxanes for coating the
   particles of the active ingredients are apolar, non-functionalized siloxanes, i.e. they do not
15 contain any polar functional group.
           Particularly     preferred   is    a    combination    of     hexamethyldisiloxane      and
   decamethylcyclopentasiloxane. As such, in a preferred embodiment, the formulation contains
   Silicone     Fluid     0.65    cSt  (hexamethyldisiloxane)      and      StCyclomethicone     5-NF
   (decamethylcyclopentasiloxane).
20         Embodiments including St-Cyclomethicone            5-NF have improved organoleptic
   properties.
           The amount of Silicone Fluid 0.65 cSt when used in the combination and even when
   used alone is in the range of 1-25%, preferably 5-20%, more preferably 8-15%, and especially
   preferably about 10%.
25         The amount of St-Cyclomethicone 5-NF when used in the combination and even when
   used alone is in the range of 1-25%, preferably 3-15%, more preferably 4-10%, and especially
   preferably about 5%.
           When the active ingredient is in the form of a suspension, the amount of siloxane used
   should be sufficient to adequately coat the active ingredient particles to avoid their intermixing
30 with the gel matrix containing solubilizers and penetration enhancing components before the
                                                     8

   evaporation of the siloxane coating upon application to the skin. Too low an amount could
   lead to the partial dissolution of the active ingredient particles thus affecting skin penetration
   and stability.
            The ratio by weight of the siloxane coating agents, for example, when two are present,
 5 can be from 1:10 to 10:1, preferably 1:5 to 5:1, most preferably 1:2 to 2:1, including 1:1.
            VIII)   and finally, purified water or in some embodiments, a solvent in addition to
   water, for example, an alcohol is added to achieve 100%.
            In some embodiments, the above formulation will include additional solvents to water,
   for example, various alcohols, etc. Additional ingredients in the composition are possible, as
10 long as they do not negatively affect the effectiveness or organoleptic characteristics thereof.
   For example, the composition may additionally contain colorants, fragrances, additional
   cosmoceuticals or nutriceuticals. Such compounds are known from the prior art.
            In one embodiment, the composition of the invention contains
15
   a selective COX-2 inhibitor compound,
   at least one compound capable of enhancing the skin penetration of the active ingredient,
   at least one solubilizer,
   at least one wetting agent,
20 at least one gel forming agent,
   at least one precipitating agent,
   at least one volatile siloxane coating agent, and
   at least one solvent.
25          The formulations may be either in the form of a solution gel, where the active
   ingredient is dissolved in the gel, or a suspension / dispersion gel, where the active ingredient
   is in a particulate form suspended and dispersed in the gel. It is possible, however, to produce
   a formulation wherein the active ingredient is present partly in a solution and partly in
   suspension gel form at the same time. In such formulations, the proportion of the active
30 ingredient present in suspension (i.e. in particulate form) can be chosen freely.
                                                     9

            In the case of suspension gels, the solid particles of active ingredient are coated with
   one or more siloxanes and dispersed in the gel, thus obtaining a transdermal formulation
   having similar properties to the solution gels according to the present invention, for example,
   cold stability and good skin penetration, but providing additional benefits, e.g., even further
 5 enhanced stability, e.g., storage stability, especially physicochemical and microbiological
   stability.
           A preferred composition of the invention contains
10 Celecoxib                                     0.5-10%
   Menthol                                       0.5-10%
   Brij 58                                       3-25%
   Kolliphor P407                                3-25%, however, this ingredient may be absent,
   PEG 1000                                     2-25%
15 Carbopol 980                                  0,25-2%
   NaOH aqueous solution (10 m/v%)              0,1%-5%
   Silicone Fluid 0.65 cSt                       1-25%
   St-Cyclomethicone 5-NF                        1-25%
   Purified water                               ad 100%
20
           A more preferred composition, which is a solution gel, contains
   Celecoxib                                    2%
   Menthol                                       1%
   Brij 58                                      7%
25 Kolliphor P407                               7%,
   PEG 1000                                      10%
   Carbopol 980                                 0.5%
   NaOH aqueous solution (10 m/v%)               1%
   Silicone Fluid 0.65 cSt                       10%
30 ST-Cyclomethicone5-NF                        5%
                                                   10

    Purified water                                ad 100%.
             A more preferred composition, which is a suspension gel containing the active
    ingredient in particulate form, contains
  5 Celecoxib                                     2%
    Menthol                                       1%
    Brij 58                                       5%
    PEG1000                                       10%
    Carbopol 980                                  0.5%
 10 NaOH solution 10%                             1%
    Silicone 0.65 cSt                             5%
    St-Cyclomethicone 5-NF                5%
    Purified water                                ad 100%.
 15 The amounts indicated herein may be varied for each ingredient, for example, by 20%, more
    preferably by 10%.
             In the above formulations, the menthol may be exchanged for lavender oil or almond
    oil, for example.
             In the above formulations, one or both of Silicone Fluid 0.65 cSt and St
 ?0 Cyclomethicone 5-NF may be used, preferably both.
    According to the actual application requirements, it is possible to change the viscosity of the
    gel by modifying the concentration of the gel forming agent and, as required, the amount of
    the precipitating agent. Lowering the concentration of the gel forming agent to 0.25-0.4
25  percent results in decreased viscosity.
             In preferred embodiments of the present invention, the particles of active ingredient,
    e.g., celecoxib, are surrounded by a volatile siloxane coating. In this coating, none of the
    active ingredient, the solubilizing agents, and the gel are soluble. Thus, the physical form of
    suspension is maintained, even though by direct contact celecoxib would dissolve in the
                                                    11

   solubilizer, and the formulation is even more stable than when the active compound would be
   dissolved.
           As soon as the formulation is transferred to the skin and the volatile siloxane coating
   evaporates, the barrier for dissolution disappears, and the active ingredient is contacted with
 5 and dissolved in the excipients, especially the solubilizers. Such a change in physical form of
   the formulation enhances absorption and skin penetration. This formulation thus exhibits
   controlled release as well as controlled absorption of the active ingredient.
   When the gel containing celecoxib particles coated with siloxanes (i.e., a suspension gel as
10 opposed to the solution gel) is spread onto the skin or other body surface and the temperature
   of the formulation would increase to, for example, between 24 to 32 "C, the volatile siloxanes
   evaporate.   During the course of the evaporation of the volatile siloxanes, the formulation
   becomes a solution (i.e. particles of celecoxib are solubilized, dissolved) and the solution is
   absorbed by the skin.
15         In a preferred embodiment using celecoxib as the active ingredient in a suspension
   type gel, the gel base is created from a Carbopol 980, water, and NaOH solution (Carbopol: an
   acrylate-type gel forming copolymer). Menthol is provided for enhancing the penetration of
   the active ingredient after the evaporation of the siloxanes and serves also as fragrance. Brij
   58 functions as solubilizer and PEG 1000 functions as a wetting agent. Finally the siloxane
20 coating agents used are SF 0.65 and St-Cyclomethicone 5-NF.
           In general, the compositions can be prepared by a process that includes
   swelling the at least one gel forming agent in the at least one solvent, and if required,
   neutralizing with the at least one precipitating agent until pH 5.5-7.5, or otherwise producing a
   gel base,
25 warming up the at least one solubilizer to approximately 50 "C and dissolving therein the at
   least one wetting agent and the at least one compound capable of enhancing the penetration of
   the active ingredient, thereby forming a melt, stirring the melt into the gel,
    if more than one, then mixing together the siloxane coating agents,
                                                    12

     the selective COX-2 inhibitor compound, optionally in micronized form is dispersed in the at
     least one siloxane coating agent and homogenized, optionally by a colloid mill, thereby
     forming a suspension, and
     the suspension is stirred into the gel and homogenized, optionally by a colloid mill,
  5  wherein the process includes the interchanging of the at least one compound capable of
     enhancing the penetration of the active ingredient and the selective COX-2 inhibitor
     compound in the above process steps.
             In a preferred embodiment, the method of manufacture for the suspension formulation
 10  is as follows:
             i) Carbopol 980 is allowed to swell in the water and neutralized by the NaOH solution
    until pH 5.5-7.5, thereby forming a gel.
             ii) Brij-58 is warmed up to approximately 40-50 *C and PEG-1000 and menthol are
    dissolved in their mixture, thereby forming a melt.
 15          iii) The melt is slowly stirred into the gel.
             iv) The two siloxane components are mutually dissolved (i.e., mixed).
             v) Micronized celecoxib is dispersed in the mixture of the siloxanes and homogenized,
    preferably by using a colloid mill.
             vi) The suspension of the active ingredient in the siloxanes are stirred into the gel and
 20 homogenized, preferably by a colloid mill.
             According to a further preferred embodiment, the method for preparation of a
    suspension formulation is carried out as follows. After preparing a gel by swelling the gel
    forming agent and addition of          the precipitating agent, the solubilizer or components of
    solubilizer system and the wetting agent are mixed to the gel base to form a first mixture. The
25  volatile siloxane components and menthol are mixed separately and the active ingredient,
    preferably celecoxib is suspended in the thus obtained mixture, forming a suspension. Finally
    the suspension is added to the first mixture and homogenized.
             In the case of solution gels, the active ingredient is in a dissolved state in the gel, which
    contains the solubilizers. No particles of the active ingredient are present. However, in an
30  embodiment, the menthol (which is used as penetration enhancer for the active ingredient, e.g.,
                                                       13

    celecoxib) is coated with the siloxanes. Notwithstanding the above, it is possible to produce a
    formulation wherein the active ingredient is partly in dissolved state and partly present as
   particles.
           Production of the solution-type gels is carried out in an essentially similar way to that
 5 of the suspension type gels with a few modifications. The active ingredient, e.g. celecoxib is
   dissolved in the solubilizer-wetting agent mixture heated to approx. 50 *C. The siloxane
   ingredient and the penetration enhancing component, e.g. menthol are dispersed in the gel base
   prepared according to the method described above and homogenized, for example, using a
   colloidal mill. Finally, the solution of the active ingredient in the solubilizer-wetting agent
10 mixture is stirred into the gel base and homogenized, e.g. using a colloidal mill.
           In an alternative preparation method to the processing method disclosed above, instead
   of the active agent being dispersed in the siloxanes, the menthol used as penetration enhancer
   is dispersed in the siloxanes, and the active compound is dissolved in the solubilizers.
15         In a further alternative preparation method, the gel forming agent is dispersed in water
   and allowed to swell. The precipitating agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent, preferably in
   water and the swollen gel is neutralized. The solubilizers Brij-58, Kolliphor P-407 and PEG
    1000 are melted together at approximately 40 'C. Subsequently the active ingredient, for
   example, celecoxib and if present, the penetration enhancing agent, for example, menthol are
20 dissolved in the composite melt. The siloxane component is mixed into the thus obtained
   mass comprising the solubilizers and active ingredient and homogenized. Finally, the
   neutralized gel and the mixture of solubilizers, active ingredient and siloxane component are
   slowly mixed and homogenized.
   The formulations can be alternatively produced by inline manufacturing using a closed
25 controlled manufacturing system.
   The formulations of the invention can be administered by the use of a patch. However,
   preferably, no patch is utilized.
           The formulation of the invention, preferably omit the use of higher alcohols and esters
   thereof, e.g., of saturated or unsaturated higher aliphatic alcohols having 8 to 22 carbon atoms.
                                                    14

           Evaluation of membrane permeationis measured by static Hanson-cell with closed
   membrane surface, acceptor phase is an aqueous buffer, where the sample is deposed on the
   membrane. The results are given as a cumulative amount of the active ingredient during a 6
   hour testing period permeating the membrane, expressed in micrograms/square centimeters.
 5 The membrane used for penetration testing was a cellulosic mixed ester membrane and the
   acceptor phase was phosphate buffer.
10
   Examples
   Reference preparations have been produced according to the method disclosed in
15 W02009007764 by coating the particles of the active ingredient with a volatile siloxane.
                                             Example 1
         Gel formulation wherein the active ingredient is in dissolved state (solution type gel)
20
   Celecoxib             2%             active ingredient
   Menthol               0.66%          penetration enhancer
   Brij-58               7%             solubilizer
   Kolliphor P407        7%             solubilizer
25 PEG1000               10%            wetting agent
   Carbopol980           0.5%           gel-forming agent
   NaOH solution 10% 1%                 precipitating agent
   Silicone 0.65 cSt     5%             siloxane additive
   Purified water    ad 100%            base, solvent
30
                                                  15

   Properties:
           White gel of excellent consistency with menthol odour and with a membrane
   permeation (6 hours) of 1398 micrograms/square cm.
 5
   Evaluation:
           A gel containing the active ingredient is solubilized form. It can be easily
   manufactured on an industrial scale. The membrane permeation is good, as well as the
10 consistency and organoleptic properties.
           The active ingredient has been micronized using a Fritsch Pulverisette 14 milling
   equipment. There is no crystallization. The resulting composition has excellent consistency
   and applicability. The in vitro membrane penetration is immediate.
15
           Example 2 provides a suspension gel formulation of the active ingredient prepared by a
   process described above.
20                                           Example 2
        Gel formulation wherein the active ingredient is present in solid state (suspension gel)
   Celecoxib              2%            active ingredient
   Menthol                1%            penetration enhancer
25 Brij 58                5%            solubilizer
   PEG1000                10%           wetting agent
   Carbopol 980           0.5%          gel-forming agent
   NaOH solution 10% 1%                 precipitating agent
   Silicone Fluid 0.65 cSt        5%            siloxane coating agent
30 ST-Cyclomethicone 5-NF 5%                    siloxane coating agent
                                                   16

   Purified water     ad    100%          base, solvent
   Properties:
           White gel of excellent consistency with menthol odour and with a membrane
 5 permeation (cumulative, 6 hours) of 478 micrograms/ square cm.
   Evaluation:
           A gel containing the active ingredient is suspended form. It can be easily manufactured
   on an industrial scale. The membrane permeation is immediate, the consistency and
10 organoleptic properties are excellent.
           Comparative examples 1 and 2 are experiments with gels, which are closely tailored to
   the approach taken in W02009007764 and W02010089617.
15
                                        Comparative example 1
   Composition:
20 Celecoxib                     3%      active ingredient
   Carbopol 980                  0.5%    gel-forming agent
   NaOH solution 10 (w/v)%       1%      precipitating agent
   Silicone 0.65 cSt             3.3% siloxane coating material
   Silicone 100 cSt              10%     siloxane coating material
25 Purified water         ad     100% base, solvent
   Features:
                                                    17

           Easily spreadable, odourless, non-sticking gel, with a cumulative permeation (6 hours)
   3.1 micrograms/square cm.
   Evaluation:
 5        A classic, stable gel, which can be easily manufactured. Although the gel can be easily
   used and is of good consistency, the skin permeation is poor.
                                       Comparative example 2
10 Celecoxib                      3%     active ingredient
   Carbopol 980                   0.5%   gel-forming agent
   NaOH solution 10 (w/v)%        1%     precipitating agent
   Silicone 0.65 cSt              10%    siloxane coating material
   Silicone 100 cSt               1%     siloxane coating material
15 Purified water         ad      100% base, solvent
   Features:
          Easily spreadable, odourless, non-sticking gel with a cumulative permeation (6 hours)
   of 4.8 micrograms/square cm.
20
   Evaluation:
          A classic, stable gel which can be easily manufactured. Although the gel can be easily
   used and of good consistency, the skin permeation is poor.
25
   Conclusions from experiments above:
          The permeation of the active ingredient can be somewhat increased by varying the
   amounts of the siloxane ingredients, but the desired range cannot be achieved.
30
                                                    18

           Comparative example 3 takes the approach of enhancing the penetration of celecoxib
   using menthol along with various solubilizers. The mixture of celecoxib and menthol was
   found to dissolve in most solubilizers tested (comparative example 3 provides the embodiment
   with Tween 60), but only those having a high HLB value can maintain it in the aqueous phase.
 5 None of the solubilizers were found to be suitable for forming an emulsion alone in these
   experiments, since the active ingredient starts crystallizing instantly. Using a complex
   emulgent (high+low HLB solubilizers), an emulsion can be formed which crystallizes after a
   few hours. The solution is stable on the short term (24 hours) only.
10                                     Comparative example 3
   Composition:
   Celecoxib                     3%      active ingredient
   Menthol                       3%      fragrance, penetration enhancer
   Tween 60                      12%     solubilizer
15 Ethanol                       10%     solubilizer
   Carbopo1980                   0.5%    gel-forming agent
   NaOH solution 10%             1%     precipitating agent
   Silicone 0.65 cSt             5%      siloxane ingredient
   Purified water        ad     100%    base, solvent
20
   Features:
           A yellowish, honey-like, viscous, sticky gel with a membrane permeation (6 hours) of
   2341 micrograms/square cm.
25 Evaluation:
           The manufacture of this composition is easily feasible. The in vitro permeation is
   excellent. However, the physical state, consistency and applicability of the gel is poor.
           On the basis of the above composition of comparative example 3, further similar
30 compositions were prepared by varying the amount of the active ingredient, from 3-6%, the
                                                   19

  amount of menthol from 1-2% and the amount of Tween 60 from 12-24%, each time using 1%
  Carbopol to obtain a suitable gel consistency.
          The membrane permeation increases with increasing active ingredient content but not
  proportionally. Increasing viscosity of the gel significantly degrades membrane permeation.
5         In the composition of comparative          example 3 and in those based thereon,
  crystallization was observed after 3-4 days of storage.
          The preceding examples can be repeated with similar success by substituting the
  generically or specifically described ingredients and/or operating conditions of this invention
  for those used in the preceding examples.
0         Without further elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art can, using the
  preceding description, utilize the present invention to its fullest extent.     The preceding
  preferred specific embodiments are, therefore, to be construed as merely illustrative, and not
  limitative of the remainder of the disclosure in any way whatsoever.
          From the foregoing description, one skilled in the art can easily ascertain the
5 essential characteristics of this invention and, without departing from the spirit and scope
  thereof, can make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various
  usages and conditions.
          The entire disclosures of all applications, patents and publications cited herein are
  incorporated by reference herein for the disclosure of materials mentioned herein regarding
0 said applications, patents and publications.
                                                  20

                                                   Claims
   1.       A gel composition comprising:
            a selective COX-2 inhibitor compound,
 5          at least one solubilizer,
            at least one wetting agent,
            at least one gel forming agent,
            at least one precipitating agent,
            at least one volatile siloxane agent, and
10          at least one solvent.
   2. Composition according to claim 1, further comprising a permeation enhancing compound.
   3.       The composition of claim 1, characterized by that the selective COX-2 inhibitor is
15 present in the composition in solid particulate form.
   4.       The composition of claim 1, characterized by the selective COX-2 inhibitor      is
   dissolved in the composition.
20 5. A pharmaceutical composition, comprising:
   a selective COX-2 inhibitor, forming a plurality of solid particle;
   at least one solubilizer;
   a wetting agent;
   a gel forming agent;
25 a solvent comprising water; and
   at least one volatile siloxane agent coating the selective COX-2 inhibitor,
   wherein the solid particles are dispersed in the composition, and
   wherein the composition comprises a suspension gel.
                                                     21

   6.      The composition of claim 5, wherein the solubilizer comprises polyethylene glycol
   hexadecyl ether.
   7.      The composition of claim 5, wherein the polyethylene glycol hexadecyl ether
 5 comprises about 5-10% of the composition.
   8.      The composition of claim 6, wherein the solubilizer comprises poly(ethylene glycol)
   block-poly(propylene glycol)-block-poly(ethylene) glycol.
10 9.      The composition of claim 8, wherein the poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(propylene
   glycol)-block-poly(ethylene) glycol comprises about 5-10% of the composition.
   10.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the solubilizer comprises at least one of
   polyethylene glycol hexadecyl ether, poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(propylene glycol)
15 block-poly(ethylene)   glycol, polyethylene glycol 1000, polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan
   monostearate, Span 60, and Emulsifier 10.
   11.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the solubilizer comprises a polyethylene glycol
   derivative having 2 to 25 oxyethylene groups.
20
   12.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the HLB value of the solubilizer is between 14
   and 20.
   13.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the solubilizer comprises polyethylene glycol
25 hexadecyl ether and polyethylene glycol 1000.
   14.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the wetting agent comprises polyethylene glycol.
   15.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the gel forming agent comprises polymerized
30 prop-2-enoic acid ester.
                                                 22

    16.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the polymerized prop-2-enoic acid ester
    comprises about 0.3-1% of the composition.
    17.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the volatile siloxane agent comprises at least one
  5 of hexamethyldisiloxane and decamethylcyclopentasiloxane.
    18.     The composition of claim 17, wherein the hexamethyldisiloxane comprises about 8
    15% of the composition.
 [0 19.     The composition of claim 17, wherein the decamethylcyclopentasiloxane comprises
    about 4-10% of the composition.
    20.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the selective COX-2 inhibitor comprises
    celecoxib.
 L5
    21.     The composition of claim 5, wherein the selective COX-2 inhibitor comprises about
    0.5-10% of the composition.
    22.     The composition of claim 5, further comprising a precipitation agent.
  0
    23.    The composition of claim 22, wherein the precipitation agent comprises NaOH.
    24.    The composition of claim 22, wherein the precipitation agent comprises about 0.5
    1.2% of the composition.
25
    25.    The composition of claim 5, further comprising a permeation enhancing agent.
    26.    The composition of claim 5, wherein the solvent consists essentially of an aqueous
    solvent.
30
    27.    The composition of claim 5, comprising
    celecoxib in an amount of 2%;
    menthol in an amount of 1%;
                                                  23

   polyethylene glycol hexadecyl ether in an amount of 5%;
   polyethylene glycol 1000 in an amount of 10%;
   polymerized prop-2-enoic acid ester in an amount of 0.5%;
   a 10% NaOH solution in an amount of 1%
 5 hexamethyldisiloxane in an amount of 5%;
   decamethylcyclopentasiloxane in an amount of 5%; and
   purified water.
   28.      A pharmaceutical composition, comprising:
10 a selective COX-2 inhibitor;
   at least one solubilizer;
   a wetting agent;
   a gel forming agent;
   a solvent comprising water; and
15 at least one volatile siloxane agent,
   wherein the composition comprises a solution gel.
   29.      The composition of claim 28, wherein the solubilizer comprises polyethylene glycol
   hexadecyl ether.
20
   30.      The composition of claim 28, wherein the polyethylene glycol hexadecyl ether
   comprises about 5-10% of the composition.
   31.      The composition of claim 29, wherein the solubilizer comprises poly(ethylene glycol)
25 block-poly(propylene glycol)-block-poly(ethylene) glycol.
   32.      The composition of claim 31, wherein the poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(propylene
   glycol)-block-poly(ethylene) glycol comprises about 5-10% of the composition.
30 33.      The composition of claim 28, wherein the solubilizer comprises at least one of
   polyethylene glycol hexadecyl ether, poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(propylene glycol)
                                                 24

   block-poly(ethylene)   glycol, polyethylene   glycol 1000, polyoxyethylene      (20) sorbitan
   monostearate, Span 60, or Emulsifier 10.
   34.     Composition according to claim 28, characterized by that the HLB value of the
 5 solubilizer is between 14 and 20.
   35.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the solubilizer comprises polyethylene glycol
   hexadecyl ether and polyethylene glycol 1000.
10 36.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the solubilizer comprises polyethylene glycol
   hexadecyl ether, polyethylene glycol 1000, and poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(propylene
   glycol)-block-poly(ethylene) glycol.
   37.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the wetting agent comprises polyethylene
15 glycol.
   38.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the gel forming agent comprises polymerized
   prop-2-enoic acid ester.
20 39.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the polymerized prop-2-enoic acid ester
   comprises about 0.3-1% of the composition.
   40.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the volatile siloxane agent comprises at least one
   of hexamethyldisiloxane and decamethylcyclopentasiloxane.
25
   41.     The composition of claim 40, wherein the hexamethyldisiloxane comprises about 8
   15% of the composition.
   42.     The composition of claim 40, wherein the decamethylcyclopentasiloxane comprises
30 about 4-10% of the composition.
                                                25

   43.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the selective COX-2 inhibitor comprises
   celexocib.
   44.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the selective COX-2 inhibitor comprises about
 5 0.5-10% of the composition.
   45.     The composition of claim 28, further comprising a precipitation agent.
   46.     The composition of claim 45, wherein the precipitation agent comprises NaOH.
10
   47.     The composition of claim 45, wherein the precipitation agent comprises about 0.5
   1.2% of the composition.
   48.     The composition of claim 28, further comprising a permeation enhancing agent.
15
   49.     The composition of claim 28, wherein the solvent consists essentially of an aqueous
   solvent.
   50.     The composition of claim 28, comprising
20 celecoxib in an amount of 2%;
   menthol in an amount of 0.66%;
   polyethylene glycol hexadecyl ether in an amount of 7%;
   poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(propylene glycol)-block-poly(ethylene) glycol in an amount
   of 7%;
25 polyethylene glycol 1000 in an amount of 10%;
   polymerized prop-2-enoic acid ester in an amount of 0.5%;
   a 10% NaOH solution in an amount of 1%
   hexamethyldisiloxane in an amount of 5%; and
   purified water.
30
                                                 26

