                                            ABSTRACT
This invention relates to a monitoring method and system for monitoring the dispensing of
medicaments in a hospital from a portable medicament dispensing station. The medicament
dispensing station (3) has a first identification means (9) and a second identification means
(13) for capturing identifiers relating to an individual wishing to dispense a medicament. A
releasable locking mechanism (23) is provided that will allow dispensing of medicaments on
appropriate identifiers being captured and authenticated. The identifier data is transmitted to
a monitoring unit (5) over a communications network (8) and is stored in a remote monitoring
unit memory (7) for future reference. By implementing such a system and method, tampering
with the data input to the system is obviated and traceability and accountability are facilitated.
1 A 271 rnn/52QA71 fna

                                                    1
                             "A monitoring method and system"
Related Cases
This patent application is a divisional patent application of Australian divisional patent application
No. 2015243037, which was filed on 15 October 2015 and which was a divisional patent
application of Australian patent application No. 2013202175, which was filed on 28 March 2013
and which was a divisional patent application of Australian patent application No. 2007280423,
which was filed on 11 February 2009 and which was a national phase application of International
patent application No. PCT/EP2007/058044, which was published as WO 2008/015264 and
which was filed on 2 August 2007, and which claimed Convention priority from Irish patent
application No. S2006/0577, which was filed on 2 August 2006, all of which specifications are
incorporated in their entirety herein, for all purposes.
Introduction
This invention relates to a monitoring method and system and in particular to a method and
system for monitoring the dispensing of medicaments in a hospital.
 In this specification the term medicament has been used throughout and is intended to
include blood products as well as medicinal drugs administered by medical personnel. The
term hospital is intended to encompass not only hospitals in the traditional sense but also
clinics, nursing homes and other environments where blood products and/or medicinal
drugs are commonly administered.
One of the major causes of accidental deaths in hospitals today can be attributed to
administration of incorrect medicaments to the patients by medical staff. It has been
estimated that in the region of nine thousand people died in the United States in 2006
due to misadministration of medicaments to them by medical staff. Apart from the human
cost, the cost of malpractice suits can also be crippling on the hospitals. It is therefore in the
best interests of the hospitals to introduce tighter controls and provide comprehensive
records so that they may establish accountability in the case of such a tragedy and
attempt to reduce the number of accidents occurring.
 Heretofore, hospitals have tackled the problem by providing paper-based or electronic
records completed by the medical staff themselves in the hospitals, detailing their actions
over the course of their shift. These records were stored for subsequent analysis if needed.
14373206/894710D3

                                               la
 However, with the known systems, it was quite simple to input erroneous data into the
system and furthermore, such systems were highly susceptible to fraud and records
could be altered or input incorrectly deliberately without significant difficulty. Accordingly,
these systems have proved inadequate when attempting to establish accountability.
Furthermore, these systems typically store a record of the actions of employees which
may be used for auditing and accountability at some time in the future but they in no way
assist in the prevention of errors by the employees before they happen.
14373206/894710D3

                                                    -2
      It is an object therefore of the present invention to provide a method and system for
      monitoring the dispensing of medicaments in a hospital that overcome at least some of
      these difficulties that is both simple to implement and relatively simple to operate.
  5   Statements of Invention
      According to the invention there is provided a method of monitoring the dispensing of
      medicaments in a hospital, in a system comprising a portable medicament dispensing
      station, a remote monitoring unit having memory and a communication network
 10   connecting the medicament dispensing station and the monitoring unit, each time an
      individual attempts to dispense medicaments from the medicament dispensing station
     the method comprising the steps of:- the medicament dispensing station capturing a first
     identifier relating to the individual attempting to dispense medicaments from the
     medicament dispensing station; the medicament dispensing station capturing a second
 15  identifier relating to the individual attempting to dispense medicaments from the
     medicament dispensing station; the medicament dispensing station capturing the time at
     which the individual attempts to dispense medicaments from the medicament dispensing
     station; transmitting the captured first identifier, second identifier and time from the
     medicament dispensing station to the remote monitoring unit over the communications
20   network; the remote monitoring unit storing the captured first identifier, second identifier
     and time in remote monitoring unit memory for future reference.
     By having such a method, it will be possible to positively identify the individuals
     responsible for administering the medicaments with 100% certainty and the hospitals
25  can trace the individuals responsible and take appropriate action in the event of an
    accidental misadministration of a medicament. Furthermore, as two separate and distinct
    types of identification are captured and the data is stored in a remote monitoring server,
    the opportunity for fraud is practically nil. Preferably, information relating to the patient
    and the medicament being administered may also be captured. If the nurse or other
30  individual responsible for dispensing the medicaments enters the information onto the
    system that they have provided a certain patient with their required prescribed
    medicaments, a record of that entry will be taken, as well as a record of the individual
    that inserted the record onto the system. Subsequent changing of the records by the
    nurse will not be possible and if a query should arise about the manner in which

                                                   -3
       medicaments were dispensed to that particular patient, a history may be obtained for the
       particular patient, along with a log of the nurse that provided them with their
       medicaments and similarly, a record of the medicaments dispensed by a particular nurse
       may also be obtained          if necessary.   This auditing system allows for a very
  5   comprehensive reporting method to be implemented and reports may be generated in a
       relatively short space of time.
      In one embodiment of the invention there is provided a method in which the step of
      capturing a first identifier comprises capturing an identification code from the individual.
 10
      In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method in which the step of
      capturing a second identifier comprises capturing a photographic image of the individual.
      Alternatively, the step of capturing a second identifier comprises capturing a video clip of
      the individual. As a further alternative still, the step of capturing a second identifier
 15   comprises capturing biometric data of the individual.
      In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method in which the method
     further comprises capturing position data relating to the individual in the hospital when
     they attempt to dispense medicaments, transmitting the position data to the monitoring
20   unit and storing the position data in memory.
     In a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a method in which the
     medicament dispensing station further comprises a releasable locking mechanism and in
     which the method further comprises the step of the releasable locking mechanism only
25   being released on the medicament dispensing station capturing both the first and second
     identifiers.
    In one embodiment, the method comprises the step of authenticating the individual from
    at least one of the first and second identifiers and releasing the releasable locking
30  mechanism on the individual being authenticated. In another embodiment, the step of
    authenticating the individual comprises the monitoring unit comparing at least one of the
    first and second identifiers with data relating to the individual in memory and sending an
    authentication response to the medicament dispensing station permitting or refusing

                                                     -4
       release of the locking mechanism depending on the comparison of the identifier and the
      data in memory.
       In a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a method in which the system
  5   further comprises a separate remote database having personnel records of individuals in
      the hospital and the method of monitoring the dispensing of medicaments further
      comprises the step of matching one of the captured first identifier and second identifier in
      the remote monitoring unit memory to one of the personnel records in the database.
 10   In one embodiment of the invention there is provided a medicament dispensing
      monitoring system comprising at least one portable medicament dispensing station and
      a remote monitoring unit, in communication with each other by way of a communication
      network, the monitoring unit having memory for storage of monitoring data thereon, the
      medicament dispensing station having a first identification means to receive a first
 15   identifier relating to an individual dispensing medicaments from the medicament
     dispensing station and a second identification means to receive a second identifier
     relating to the individual dispensing medicaments from the medicament dispensing
     station and a clock, the medicament dispensing station further comprising means to
     transmit the first and second identifiers along with time data to the remote monitoring
20   computer over the communication network and the monitoring computer having means
     to store the first and second identifiers and the time data in memory as monitoring data.
     In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a system in which the first
     identification means further comprises means to receive an identification code from the
25   individual. In a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a medicament
    dispensing monitoring system in which the second identification means further
    comprises means to capture a photographic image of the individual. Alternatively, the
    second identification means further comprises means to capture a video clip of the
    individual. As a further still alternative, the second identification means comprises means
30  to capture biometric data of the individual.
    In a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a system in which the system
    further comprises means to capture position data relating to the individual.

                                                     -5
       In one embodiment of the invention there is provided a system in which the medicament
      dispensing station is further provided with a releasable locking mechanism, the
      releasable locking mechanism being released on the medicament dispensing station
      capturing both the first and second identifiers.
  5
      In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a system in which the system
      comprises means to authenticate at least one of the first and second identifiers and
      means to release the locking mechanism on authentication of at least one of the
      identifiers. In a further embodiment of the invention, the system comprises a separate
 10   remote database having personnel records of individuals in the hospital and means to
      match one of the captured first identifier and second identifier in the remote monitoring
      unit memory with one of the personnel records in the database.
      In one embodiment of the invention, the medicament dispensing unit has a releasable
 15  locking mechanism for preventing the dispensing of medicaments, the locking mechanism
     being releasable on input of predetermined information into a data entry unit on the
     medicament dispensing station. In one embodiment, the predetermined information
     comprises one or more of a patient identifier, a prescription identifier and an individual
     identifier. By having the patient identifier, the prescription identifier which may include the
20   dosage requirement and/or the medicament name, and an individual identifier, it is possible
     to determine what medicament is about to be dispensed, to which patient and by whom. A
     record of this may be taken and furthermore before the medicament is actually dispensed
    to the individual to give to the patient, a check may be made to ensure the correct
     medicament is actually being dispensed in the correct dosage. This will alert the individual
25  dispensing the medicament that they may be potentially making an error and, if necessary,
    the releasable locking mechanism may not be allowed to release unless an overriding
    authorisation is given by an authorised individual such as a ward sister or physician. In a
    further embodiment of the invention, the predetermined information is compared against
    access information stored in memory.
30
    In one embodiment of the invention there is provided a method of monitoring work
    practices of an individual in a workplace, in a system comprising a data entry module, a
    remote monitoring unit having memory and a communication network connecting the
    data entry module and the monitoring unit, the individual having an identification tag

                                                  -6
      thereon and the system having means to determine the position of the individual wearing
      the identification tag in the workplace over time, the method comprising the steps of:
      tracking the position over time of the individual in the workplace; sending the position
      data of the individual to the monitoring unit for storage in monitoring unit memory; the
  5   individual entering task data in the data entry module indicating that a task has been
      completed along with data identifying the individual; sending the task data to the remote
      monitoring unit for storage in monitoring unit memory; collating the position data and the
     task data for subsequent inspection. The identification data could be one or more forms
     of identification including a personal identification code, a video clip, a photographic
 10  image, biometric data including fingerprint, retina and/or iris scan data.
     In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method in which the
     communication network is a low powered ZigBee network comprising a plurality of fixed
     nodes and the identification tag worn by the individual comprises a wireless mobile node
 15  of the ZigBee network, and in which the method step of tracking the position over time of
     the individual in the workplace further comprises tracking the position over time of the
    wireless mobile node in the ZigBee network.
     In a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a method in which there is
20  provided a separate remote database having personnel records of individuals working in
    the workplace and the method of monitoring the work practices of individuals further
    comprises the step of matching the data identifying the individual to one of the personnel
    records in the remote database.
25  Detailed Description of the Invention
    The invention will now be more clearly understood from the following description of some
    embodiments thereof, given by way of example only, in which:
30           Figure 1 is a diagrammatic representation of a system in which the method
             according to the present invention is performed;
             Figure 2 is a diagrammatic representation of a system in which the method
             according to the invention is performed.

                                                  -7
      Referring to the drawings and initially to Figure 1 thereof, there is shown a system,
      indicated generally by the reference numeral 1, comprising a portable medicament
      dispensing station 3, a remote monitoring         unit 5 having a memory 7 and a
  5   communication network 8 connecting the medicament dispensing station 3 to the
      monitoring unit 5. The medicament dispensing station 3 further comprises a first
      identification means 9 provided by way of a keypad 11 and a second identification
      means 13 provided by way of a video camera 15. The medicament dispensing station 3
      further comprises a clock 17, a controller 19, a communication means 21 and a
 10   releasable locking mechanism 23, all of which are internal the medicament dispensing
      station and are shown in outline.
      In use, an individual that attempts to dispense a medicament from the medicament
     dispensing station will provide both a first identifier and a second identifier to the
 15  medicament dispensing station. The first identifier will typically comprise a numeric or
     alphanumeric identification code particular to that individual input by the individual on the
     keypad 11. The second identifier will be a short video clip of the individual taken by the
     video camera 15. The medicament dispensing station 3 captures the time at which the
     individual attempts to dispense the medicaments and transmits the first identifier, the
20   second identifier and the time to the remote monitoring unit over the communications
     network. The remote monitoring unit stores the captured first identifier, second identifier
    and time in remote monitoring unit memory for future reference.
    As an alternative to a video image, it is envisaged that the second identifier may
25  comprise a photograph in which case the second identification means 13 will be
    provided by a camera. Alternatively, it is envisaged that the second identifier may
    comprise a fingerprint, retina scan or other biometric data unique to an individual in
    which case the second identification means 13 will be provided by a suitable means to
    capture the biometric data, for example a fingerprint scanner or a retina scanner. The
30  specific construction of the second identification means are not important, what is
    important is the fact that there are two distinct identification means, one of which can
    irrefutably identify the individual dispensing the medicaments or blood products from the
    medicament dispensing station.

                                                     -8
       As an alternative to the identification code being provided manually by the individual on
       the keypad, the identification code could be stored on a data carrier which in turn is
       carried by the individual and captured in an unobtrusive, automatic fashion. For
       example, the identification code could be provided by way of an RFID card carried by the
   5   individual in which case there would be an RFID reader on the medicament dispensing
       station instead of or in addition to the keypad. As a further alternative still, the
       identification code may be supplied by a transmitter worn by the individual and an
       appropriate receiver on the medicament dispensing station would be provided instead of
      or in addition to the keypad to pick up the transmitted signal. It is envisaged that having
 10   a keypad will be advantageous so that additional information that may be required to
      allow dispensing of certain medicaments or blood products may be provided by the
      individual. For example, it may be necessary to enter a patient identifier and/or the
      medicament that is to be administered to them prior to the medicament being released.
      Other data entry means such as a bar code scanner (not shown) for reading bar code
 15   data on packaged medicaments or identification badges worn by employees may also
      be provided if desired.
      Referring to Figure 2 of the drawings, there is shown an alternative system in which the
      method according to the invention may be performed, where like parts have been given
20   the same reference numerals as before. The system, indicated generally by the
      reference numeral 31, further comprises a PDA 33, a laptop computer 35 and a separate
     stand-alone PC 37 and database 39. The database 39 has personnel records of
     individuals working in the hospital stored thereon along with at least one of the unique
     identifiers of the individuals. If it is necessary to check the records relating to a particular
25   incident, an operator of the monitoring unit may determine which unique identifier related
     to a particular incident and send that unique identifier to the operator of the stand-alone
     PC and database. The operator of the stand-alone PC 37 can compare the unique
     identifier provided with the unique identifiers in the database and retrieve the personnel
     records on their behalf. In this instance, the operator of the monitoring unit may only be
30   able to have access to the unique identifiers in the monitoring unit that will protect the
     anonymity of the individual, such as a numeric or alphanumeric code identifier and not a
     video clip identifier or the like. Therefore, a degree of security may be brought into the
     system by having the records of individuals relating to the unique identifiers stored off
     site on a separate stand-alone PC 37 and database 39.

                                                   -9
      Another feature of the embodiment described in Figure 2 is that a full audit of the work
      practices of the individuals may be achieved in a very simple manner. The
      communications network 41 is preferably a low-powered ZigBee network similar to that
  5   described     in  the  applicants     own    co-pending   PCT      patent   application  no.
      PCT/EP2006/062895, the entire disclosure of which and in particular the disclosure
      relating to the use of and the tracking of the position of the mobile network unit in the
      ZigBee network is enclosed herein by way of reference. The position of the individual in
     the ZigBee network is tracked throughout the day by determining the exact or
 10  approximate position of their mobile network unit each time it communicates with one or
      more fixed network units (not shown) in the ZigBee network. In this way, the location of
     the individual in the hospital will be known.
     In use, the PDA 33 and the laptop computer 35 may be used by an individual to input
 15  details of the work carried out by them. Each of the individuals will have a mobile
     network unit 43 forming part of the ZigBee network carried on their person. The mobile
     network unit may be used to provide the identification code to the PDA 33 or laptop
     computer 35 which in that case would be provided with a suitable receiver for identifying
     the mobile network unit. Alternatively, the user may enter a first identifier on the keypad
20   of the laptop or PDA. A second identifier may also be captured using a camera, video
     camera or biometric scanner (not shown) provided on the PDA 33 or laptop 35. When
    the individual inputs details of a job just performed by them in the course of their duties
     into the PDA or laptop, e.g. in the case of a cleaner, that the cleaner has cleaned an
    operating theatre, the position information relating to the cleaner over a given period of
25  time will also be sent to the monitoring unit and collated with the task data. In this way, it
    will be possible to verify that an individual was in the theatre for a given period of time
    when they claim that they cleaned the theatre and similarly, that the individual spent
    sufficient time cleaning the theatre.
30  This allows for identification of irregularities in work practices. For example, if an
    individual states that they performed a certain task such as cleaning the theatre but it is
    found from their position data that they were not in the vicinity of the area where the work
    was to be carried out, or that they were not there for a sufficient time to allow the work to
    be completed adequately, this pattern may be identified through routine checks and rule

                                                  -10
      based comparisons. As an alternative to the PDA or laptop, a dedicated station with a
      touch screen could be provided for the workers to record their work progress and indeed
      this may be preferable for those workers not particularly skilled with computers. Similarly,
      pictorial images could be provided on the touch screen for those with language
  5   difficulties. Furthermore, a touch screen will allow for a very quick entry of the work done
      and if desired for a confirmatory message to be provided by a supervisor that they have
      checked the work that has been done and that it is satisfactory. Again, the confirmatory
      message may be stored in memory for future reference.
 10   It is envisaged that the medicament dispensing station will be provided with memory and
      information relating to individuals and patients including their required medication types
     and doses and the controller can check the medication being administered to a particular
      patient for accuracy before the individual administers the medicament. Records of the
     correct medication and the doses may alternatively be stored on the remote monitoring
 15  unit and communication between the monitoring unit and the medicament distribution
     station may be necessary to gain authorisation to administer particular medicaments. In
     this case means will be provided to alert the individual that they may be about to
     administer the incorrect medicament if that is the case. Furthermore, the controller can
     determine whether the individual attempting to dispense medicaments from the
20   medicament dispensing station is permitted to do so and can prevent unauthorised
     access to the medicaments in the medicament dispensing station. Finally, the
     medicament dispensing station may contain medicaments, blood products or indeed
     may be an organ transport vessel for transporting organs and the access to that organ
    transport vessel may be closely monitored and controlled if desired.
25
    Furthermore, instead of having the devices operate in a low-powered wireless
    communications network, each device could be operated as a stand-alone unit and, if
    desired, information could be downloaded periodically through normal storage devices
    and collated with other information as required. Alternatively, the laptop, PDA or
30  processing unit could be connected through wired or wireless connection to the internet
    or an intranet and could transmit information to other devices or to a monitoring unit over
    the internet/intranet. What is important is that in sensitive areas such as medical
    facilities, veterinary facilities, beverage facilities and food preparation facilities, a high

                                                   - 11
     level of accountability may be achieved by closely monitoring individuals and reporting
     on the activities carried out by those individuals.
     The hardware used in the specification described above is not intended to be limiting
  5  and instead of keypads, voice activation software or touch screen apparatus may be
     used if preferred.    Furthermore, the three devices shown, namely, the PDA, the laptop
     and the processing unit are not intended to be in any way limiting and a PC, telephone
     using SMS, WAP or other similar technology or other computing device could equally
     well be used. It will be understood that each of the entries will be time and date stamped
 10  using a universal system clock which may be synchronized with each unit periodically
     and preferably daily, at the same time each day. If necessary, the information may be
     encrypted during transmission for security reasons and access permission may be
     designated to certain individuals.
     One further benefit of the auditing system is that it is envisaged that it may be used for
    training and educational purposes.        It is further envisaged that training nurses, staff
     members in need of training and the like may be required to operate with the system at
    all times and they may be graded on their effectiveness and compliance with certain
    requirements.
20
    In the specification the terms "comprise, comprises, comprised and comprising" and the
    terms "include, includes, included and including" are considered all deemed totally
    interchangeable and should be afforded the widest possible interpretation.
25  The invention is not limited to the embodiment hereinbefore described, but may be
    varied in both construction and detail within the scope of the claims.
30

                                                - 12
     Claims
     1)     A method of monitoring the dispensing of medicaments in a hospital, in a system
  5         comprising a portable medicament dispensing station (3), a remote monitoring
            unit (5) having memory (7) and a communication network (8) connecting the
            medicament dispensing station and the monitoring unit, each time an individual
            attempts to dispense medicaments from the medicament dispensing station the
            method comprising the steps of:
 10
                    the medicament dispensing station capturing a first identifier relating to
                    the individual attempting to dispense medicaments from the medicament
                    dispensing station;
 15                 the medicament dispensing station capturing a second identifier relating
                    to the    individual attempting to dispense      medicaments      from   the
                    medicament dispensing station;
                   the medicament dispensing station capturing the time at which the
20                  individual attempts to dispense medicaments from the medicament
                   dispensing station;
                   transmitting the captured first identifier, second identifier and time from
                   the medicament dispensing station to the remote monitoring unit over the
25                 communications network;
                   the remote monitoring unit (5) storing the captured first identifier, second
                   identifier and time in remote monitoring unit memory (7) for future
                   reference.
30
    2)     A method as claimed in claim 1 in which the step of capturing a first identifier
           comprises capturing an identification code from the individual.

                                              - 13
     3)   A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 in which the step of capturing a second
          identifier comprises capturing a photographic image of the individual.
     4)  A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 in which the step of capturing a second
  5       identifier comprises capturing a video clip of the individual.
     5)  A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 in which the step of capturing a second
         identifier further comprises capturing biometric data of the individual.
 10  6)  A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the method further
         comprises capturing position data relating to the individual in the hospital when
         they attempt to dispense medicaments, transmitting the position data to the
         monitoring unit (5) and storing the position data in memory (7).
 15 7)   A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the medicament dispensing
         station (3) further comprises a releasable locking mechanism (23) and in which
         the method further comprises the step of the releasable locking mechanism only
         being released on the medicament dispensing station capturing both the first and
         second identifiers.
20
    8)  A method as claimed in claim 7 in which the method comprises the step of
        authenticating the individual from at least one of the first and second identifiers
        and releasing the releasable locking mechanism on the individual being
        authenticated.
25
    9)  A method as claimed in claim 8 in which the step of authenticating the individual
        comprises the monitoring unit (5) comparing at least one of the first and second
        identifiers with data relating to the individual in memory (7) and sending an
        authentication response to the medicament dispensing station (3) permitting or
30      refusing release of the releasable locking mechanism depending on the
        comparison of the identifier and the data in memory.
    10) A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the system further
        comprises a separate remote database (39) having personnel records of

                                                 -14
           individuals in the hospital and the method of monitoring the dispensing of
           medicaments further comprises the step of matching one of the captured first
           identifier and second identifier in the remote monitoring unit memory to one of the
          personnel records in the database.
  5
     11)  A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) comprising at least one portable
          medicament dispensing station (3)           and a remote monitoring     unit (5), in
          communication with each other by way of a communication network (8, 41), the
          monitoring unit having memory (7) for storage of monitoring data thereon, the
 10       medicament dispensing station (3) having a first identification means (9) to
          receive a first identifier relating to an individual dispensing medicaments from the
          medicament dispensing station and a second identification means (13) to receive
          a second identifier relating to the individual dispensing medicaments from the
          medicament dispensing station and a clock (17), the medicament dispensing
 15       station further comprising means (21) to transmit the first and second identifiers
          along with time data to the remote monitoring computer over the communication
          network and the monitoring computer having means to store the first and second
          identifiers and the time data in memory as monitoring data.
20  12)  A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) as claimed in claim 11 in which
         the first identification means (9) further comprises means to receive an
         identification code from the individual.
    13)  A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) as claimed in claim 11 or 12 in
25       which the second identification means (13) further comprises means to capture a
         photographic image of the individual.
    14)  A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) as claimed in claim 11 or 12 in
         which the second identification means (13) further comprises means to capture a
30       video clip of the individual.
    15)  A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) as claimed in claim 11 or 12 in
         which the second identification means (13) further comprises means to capture
         biometric data of the individual.

                                                 - 15
      16)   A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) as claimed in any of claims 11
            to 15 in which the system further comprises means to capture position data
            relating to the individual.
   5
      17)  A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) as claimed in claims 11 to 16 in
           which the medicament dispensing station (3) is further provided with a releasable
           locking mechanism (23), the releasable locking mechanism being released on
           the medicament dispensing station capturing both the first and second identifiers.
 10
      18)  A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) as claimed in claim 17 in which
           the system comprises means to authenticate at least one of the first and second
           identifiers and means to release the releasable locking mechanism (23) on
           authentication of at least one of the identifiers.
 15
     19)   A medicament dispensing monitoring system (1) as claimed in any of claims 11
           to 18 in which the system further comprises a separate remote database (39)
           having personnel records of individuals in the hospital and means to match one
           of the captured first identifier and second identifier in the remote monitoring unit
20         memory (7) with one of the personnel records in the database.
     20)   A method of monitoring work practices of an individual in a workplace, in a
           system comprising a data entry module (3, 33, 35), a remote monitoring unit (5)
           having memory (7) and a communication network (8, 41) connecting the data
25        entry module and the monitoring unit, the individual having an identification tag
          thereon and the system having means to determine the position of the individual
          wearing the identification tag in the workplace over time, the method comprising
          the steps of:
30                 tracking the position over time of the individual in the workplace;
                   sending the position data of the individual to the monitoring unit (5) for
                   storage in monitoring unit memory (7);

                                                 -16
                    the individual entering task data in the data entry module (3, 33, 35)
                    indicating that a task has been completed along with data identifying the
                    individual;
   5                sending the task data to the remote monitoring unit (5) for storage in
                    monitoring unit memory (7);
                    collating the position data and the task data for subsequent inspection.
 10   21)  A method as claimed in claim 20 in which the communication network is a low
           powered ZigBee network (41) comprising a plurality of fixed nodes and the
           identification tag wom by the individual comprises a wireless mobile node of the
           ZigBee network, and in which the method step of tracking the position over time
           of the individual in the workplace further comprises tracking the position over time
 15        of the wireless mobile node in the ZigBee network.
     22)  A method as claimed in claim 20 or 21 in which there is provided a separate
           remote database (39) having personnel records of individuals working in the
          workplace and the method of monitoring the work practices of individuals further
20        comprises the step of matching the data identifying the individual to one of the
          personnel records in the remote database.
     23)  A method as claimed in any of claims 20 to 22 in which the method further
          comprises the step of a supervisor sending verification data relating to the
25        successful completion and inspection of the task from a data entry module (3, 33,
          35) to the remote monitoring unit (5) and the remote monitoring unit storing the
          supervisor data in memory (7).
                                             Hyintel Limited
30                 Patent    Attorneys   for  the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
