ABSTRACT
An are fault circuit interrupter (AFCI) outlet is disclosed which detects and interrupts
upstream parallel arc faults. The example AFCI outlet includes a switching element coupled
between the line and neutral conductors at the outlet. The outlet also includes a voltage
sensor and a current sensor. A parallel upstream arc fault is detected from a sensed voltage
drop and no corresponding increase in current.     On detecting the arc fault, the switching
element is closed and current flows through the relatively lower resistance switching element
interrupting power through the arc fault.     The closed switching element results in an
overcurrent condition causing an upstream conventional thermal-magnetic circuit breaker to
trip.

                1/3
C0
                     C:
                       0
                     C)
                     2-,
                     a)   D
                     >
                     c
                         0
00
             C)             co
                 -00
   CN a)
         a)N
                       00

   METHOD FOR OUTLET DEVICE TO PROTECT UPSTREAM PARALLEL ARC
                                               FAULT
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0001]       The present disclosure relates generally to fault detection in an electrical system
and more specifically to upstream arc fault protection through a switching element at an
outlet.
 [0002]       The present application is divided from Australian Patent Application No
2013393336, the content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
                                          BACKGROUND
 [0003]       [0001A] Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text
is expressly incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it should be
read and considered by the reader as part of this text. That the document, reference, patent
application or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is merely for reasons of
conciseness.
 [0004]       [0001B] Discussion of the background to the invention is intended to facilitate
an understanding of the present invention only. It should be appreciated that the discussion is
not an acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to was published,
known or part of the common general knowledge of the person skilled in the art in any
jurisdiction as at the priority date of the invention.
 [0005]       Traditional circuit breakers detect overcurrent conditions from electrical outlets
downstream from the circuit breaker.          Such breakers trip on detection of an overcurrent
situation occurring from loads plugged into one of the downstream outlets.             There are
additional hazards including ground faults from a line conductor or a neutral conductor.
Ground faults require ground fault circuit interrupter devices to detect and interrupt power to
outlets. Another form of fault is an arc fault that may occur on the neutral and/or conductor
lines between the outlets and the circuit breaker. Protection against arc faults is increasingly
required in residential settings in the form of arc fault circuit interrupter (AFCI) devices.
Such devices detect arcs in neutral and/or line conductors and remove power before such arcs
can cause an electrical fire. AFCI protection may be located in outlets. Such outlets monitor
and protect against faults with a set of contacts downstream of a detection module such as at
                                                   1

the outlet itself. Faults are typically detected by the detection sensor in the outlet or outlets
downstream of a conventional thermal-magnetic circuit breaker which breaks a contact in the
AFCI outlet and thereby prevents current flow through the outlet and outlets downstream
from the AFCI protected outlet.
[00061        With present devices for fault detection, the interruption by the AFCI outlet may
only be triggered as a result of parallel arc faults detected downstream from the outlet or
series are faults. Thus, the outlet and corresponding detector cannot interrupt an upstream
parallel arc fault (occurring between the outlet and the circuit breaker) because the contact
interruption device at existing AFCI outlet cannot detect such faults and even if the contact
interruption mechanism is triggered, the current would continue to flow through the fault. In
a conventional electrical system, conventional circuit breakers cannot react quickly enough to
such arc faults between the circuit breaker and an outlet. This poses a potential danger since
the arc fault may be allowed to continue for some time before the circuit breaker interrupts
power to the outlet.
[00071         It is against this background that various embodiments described herein have
been developed.
                                           SUMMARY
[00081        According to a first principal aspect, there is provided an outlet to perform arc
fault protection and detection, the outlet located downstream from a circuit breaker, the outlet
comprising:
        a switching element coupled between a line conductor and a neutral conductor having
an open position and a closed position coupling the line conductor to the neutral conductor;
        a voltage sensor coupled between the line conductor and the neutral conductor;
        a current sensor coupled on the line conductor; and
        a controller coupled to the switching element, the current sensor and the voltage
sensor, the controller detecting a large voltage drop on the line conductor and no
corresponding substantial increase in current on the line conductor indicative of a parallel are
fault between the outlet and the circuit breaker, and the controller closing the switching
element in response to the detecting, wherein the closed position of the switching element
creates a low resistance path for current flow sufficient to cause the circuit breaker to trip.
[0009]        Optionally, the switching element is a solid state transistor.
                                                 2

[0010]        Optionally, the controller is a microcontroller.
[00111        Optionally, the controller detects a change in current on the line conductor to
detect an arc fault on a second outlet coupled in series to the line conductor downstream of
the outlet.
[0012]        Optionally, the outlet further comprises a contact relay on the line conductor, the
controller activating the contact relay to interrupt the line conductor when an arc fault is
detected on the second outlet downstream of the outlet.
[00131        According to a second principal aspect, there is provided a method of
determining a parallel arc fault upstream of an outlet coupled to a circuit breaker via a line
conductor and a neutral conductor, comprising:
        detecting a high voltage drop between the line conductor and neutral conductor via a
voltage sensor coupled between the line conductor and neutral conductor in the outlet;
        detecting no substantial corresponding increase in current via a current detector on the
line conductor at the outlet; and
        closing a switching element coupled between the line conductor and the neutral
conductor to create a low resistance current path between the line conductor and neutral
conductor when the high voltage drop and no substantial increase in current is detected,
wherein the closed position of the switching element creates a low resistance path for current
flow sufficient to cause the circuit breaker to trip.
[0014]        Optionally, the switching element is a solid state transistor.
[0015]        Optionally, the switching element is closed via a controller.
[0016]        Optionally, the method further comprises detecting a change in current on the
line conductor to detect an arc fault on a second outlet coupled in series to the line conductor
downstream of the outlet.
[0017]        Optionally, the method further comprises activating a contact relay to interrupt
the line conductor when an arc fault is detected on the second outlet downstream of the
outlet.
[00181        According to a third principal aspect, there is provided a system to interrupt
power when an upstream parallel arc fault is detected, the system comprising:
        a line conductor;
        a neutral conductor;
                                                 3

        a circuit breaker coupled to the line conductor and the neutral conductor, the circuit
breaker interrupting the flow of power when an overcurrent condition is detected;
        an arc fault protection outlet coupled to the circuit breaker via the neutral and line
conductors, the outlet including a switching element coupled between the neutral and line
conductors, an outlet connector for connection to a load, a controller coupled to the switching
element to control the switching element, a voltage sensor coupled between the neutral and
line conductors and a current sensor coupled to the line conductor, the controller closing the
switching element to electrically couple the neutral and line conductors when a high voltage
drop is detected without an corresponding substantial increase in current thereby indicating
the occurrence of an arc fault between the outlet and the circuit breaker, wherein the closed
position of the switching element creates a low resistance path for current flow sufficient to
cause the circuit breaker to trip.
[0019]        Optionally, the switching element is a solid state transistor.
[0020]        Optionally, the controller is a microcontroller.
[00211        One disclosed example is an are fault circuit interrupter (AFCI) outlet which
detects and interrupts upstream parallel arc faults in conjunction with a conventional thermal
magnetic circuit breaker. The example AFCI outlet includes a switching element coupled
between the line and neutral conductors, a voltage sensor coupled between the neutral and
line conductors and a current sensor on the line conductor. When a parallel upstream arc
fault is detected by sensing a large voltage drop but no current, the switching element is
closed and current flows through the relatively lower resistance switching element
interrupting power through the arc fault.         The closed switching element results in an
overcurrent condition causing the upstream conventional thermal-magnetic circuit breaker to
trip.
[0022]        Thus, the provided AFCI outlet allows detection of parallel arc faults upstream
which currently cannot be protected by existing AFCI outlets. The example outlet does not
require additional sensor components from existing AFCI outlets but provides an interruption
at the proximate location of the detected parallel arc fault.       Interruption of the upstream
parallel fault occurs at the branch circuit breaker. The example AFCI outlet speeds up the
branch circuit breaker response time by increasing the current level into the over current
protection level of the branch circuit breaker. The example outlet causes hazardous arcing
current to transition to strictly over current fault current, thus reducing the risk of fire. The
                                                 4

arrangement also allows reset capability for unwanted tripping due to series arc fault
detection to be placed in position closer to the user (i.e., in the AFCI outlet) and without the
need for a trip signal communication to an electronic upstream circuit breaker. Further, the
switching element system, upon detection of a parallel arc fault upstream of the AFCI outlet,
produces a short which ensures that the resultant current always exceeds the over current trip
level of the branch circuit breaker and thus removes the practical limitation on the length of
the wire connecting the AFCI outlet to the circuit breaker (the "home run") for effective
parallel fault interruption.
[00231        In view of the above, embodiments described herein may operate to provide an
arc fault detection and/or interruption system that seeks to detect parallel arc faults at points
upstream from an outlet; an interruption system that interrupts power by tripping a circuit
breaker mechanism upstream of the outlet; and/or an are fault detection system that uses
existing components in an AFCI outlet for detection of arc faults upstream of an outlet.
[0024]        Additional aspects will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of
the detailed description of various embodiments, which is made with reference to the
drawings, a brief description of which is provided below.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0025]        The foregoing and other advantages of the invention will become apparent upon
reading the following detailed description and upon reference to the drawings.
[0026]        FIG. 1 is a circuit diagram of a system of outlets with an AFCI outlet for
upstream are fault detection and protection with a conventional circuit breaker;
[0027]        FIG. 2 is a detailed circuit diagram of the detection elements and switching
elements in the AFCI outlet in FIG. 1 that detect and interrupts upstream arc faults; and
[0028]        FIG. 3 is a flow diagram of the control algorithm executed by the controller at
the outlet in FIG. 2 to detect and protect against are faults.
[0029]        While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms,
specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be
described in detail herein.     It should be understood, however, that the invention is not
intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather, the invention is to cover all
modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention
as defined by the appended claims.
                                                5

                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00301       One disclosed example is an outlet to perform arc fault protection and detection.
The outlet is located downstream from a circuit breaker. The outlet includes a switching
element coupled between the line conductor and the neutral conductor having an open
position and a closed position coupling the line conductor to the neutral conductor. The
outlet includes a voltage sensor coupled between the line conductor and the neutral conductor
and a current sensor coupled on the line conductor. A controller is coupled to the switching
element, the current sensor and the voltage sensor. The controller detects a large voltage
drop on the line conductor and no corresponding substantial increase in current on the line
conductor indicative of a parallel arc fault between the outlet and the circuit breaker. The
controller closes the switching element in response to the detecting.
[0031]       Another example is a method of determining an are fault upstream of an outlet
coupled to a circuit breaker via a line conductor and a neutral conductor. A high voltage drop
is detected between the line conductor and neutral conductor via a voltage sensor coupled
between the line conductor and neutral conductor in the outlet. No substantial corresponding
increase in current via a current detector on the line conductor at the outlet is detected when
the high voltage is detected. A switching element coupled between the line conductor and the
neutral conductor is closed to create a low resistance current path between the line conductor
and neutral conductor when the high voltage and no substantial increase in current is
detected.
[0032]       Another example is a system to interrupt power when a parallel arc fault is
detected. The system includes a line conductor and a neutral conductor. A circuit breaker is
coupled to the line conductor and the neutral conductor. The circuit breaker interrupts the
flow of power when an overcurrent condition is detected. An arc fault protection outlet is
coupled to the circuit breaker via the neutral and line conductors.      The outlet includes a
switching element coupled between the neutral and line conductors, an outlet connector for
connection to a load. The outlet includes a controller coupled to the switching element to
control the switching element. A voltage sensor is coupled between the neutral and line
conductors and a current sensor is coupled to the line conductor. The controller closes the
switching element to electrically couple the neutral and line conductors when a high voltage
                                                6

drop is detected without an corresponding substantial increase in current thereby indicating
the occurrence of an arc fault between the outlet and the circuit breaker.
[00331        FIG. 1 shows an electrical supply system 100 which may be used in a residential
dwelling or other building. The system 100 includes an alternating current source 102 which
is coupled to a line conductor 104, a neutral conductor 106 and a ground conductor 108. The
alternating current source 102 is coupled to a circuit breaker 110 via the line conductor 104
and the neutral conductor 106. The circuit breaker 110 is coupled in series to an arc fault
protection outlet 112 downstream from the circuit breaker 110 and upstream from
conventional outlets 114 and 116. The outlets 112, 114 and 116 provide electrical connection
to the line conductor 104, neutral conductor 106 and ground conductor 108 for loads plugged
into the outlets 112, 114 and 116 via conventional three pronged male connectors.
[0034]        As will be explained below, the arc fault protection outlet 112 provides are fault
detection and protection for the outlets 114 and 116 which are located downstream from the
outlet 112. A parallel arc fault 120 may occur upstream of the arc fault protection outlet 112
between the line conductor 104 and the neutral conductor 106. Other parallel arc faults such
as an arc fault 130 may occur downstream of the protection outlet 112. Conventional are
fault detection systems in the arc fault protection outlet 112 detect and protect against parallel
arc faults downstream such as the arc fault 130 but cannot protect against arc faults upstream
from the are fault protection outlet 112 such as the parallel arc fault 120 despite the fact that
the arc fault 120 may occur in proximity to the arc fault protection outlet 112.
[0035]        FIG. 2 shows a detailed electrical diagram of the components of the arc fault
protection outlet 112 in FIG. 1. The arc fault protection outlet 112 in this example is capable
of detecting parallel arc faults on a branch upstream of the outlet 112 and causing an
interruption of power to prevent fire risk from the arc fault.        A faceplate 202 provides
conventional three prong female connectors to load devices that may be provided power from
the arc fault protection outlet 112.      The are fault protection outlet 112 includes a line
conductor 204 coupled to the line conductor 104 in FIG. 1 and a neutral conductor 206
coupled to the neutral conductor 106 in FIG. 1. The line conductor 204 and the neutral
conductor 206 supply power to the faceplate 202. In this example, the faceplate 202 includes
two conventional three prong connectors 210 and 212. A load with a conventional three
prong plug may be plugged into the three prong connector 210 or 212. When a load is
                                                 7

plugged in, power is supplied through the line conductor 204 and the neutral conductor 206 to
create a closed circuit.
[0036]        The outlet 212 includes a switching element 220 which is coupled between the
line conductor 204 and the neutral conductor 206.       In this example, the switching element
220 is a solid state transistor but other types of switching devices such as relays, IGBTs,
MOSFETS, etc. may be used. The switching element 220 has a closed position allowing
electrical connection between the line conductor 204 and the neutral conductor 206. The
switching element 220 also has an open position which creates an open circuit between the
line conductor 204 and the neutral conductor 206.          In normal operation, the switching
element 220 is in an open position, allowing power to flow through line conductor 204 to the
connectors 210 and 212.
[0037]        The arc fault protection outlet 112 also includes a controller 222, a current
sensor 224, a voltage sensor 226 and a contact relay 230. As is understood, the controller 222
in conjunction with the current sensor 224 and the voltage sensor 226 provide downstream
are fault detection and current interruption for the arc fault protection outlet 212. In the case
of a parallel arc fault occurring downstream from the arc fault protection outlet 112, a voltage
is detected on the voltage sensor 226 and a change in current is detected on the current sensor
224. In the case of a series arc fault, a change in current is detected by the controller 222. In
either case, the controller 222 activates the contact relay 230 and therefore interrupts the
connection on the line conductor 204 thereby preventing current from flowing to the three
prong connectors 210 and 212 as well as the three prong connectors on the outlets 114 and
116 downstream from the arc fault protection outlet 112. The contact relay 230 may typically
be reset by pressing a button (not shown) on the faceplate 202. Such a conventional arc fault
detection system cannot prevent an upstream parallel arc fault such as the arc fault 120 in
FIG. 1 since activating the contact relay 230 will not prevent current from flowing to the arc
fault 120 upstream from the arc fault protection outlet 112.
[0038]        For upstream parallel arc fault protection, the controller 222 is coupled to the
switching element 220 and outputs signals to open or close the switching element 220. The
current sensor 224 is coupled on the line conductor 204 to sense current flowing on the line
conductor 204 and provides an output signal representative of the detected current to the
controller 222. The voltage sensor 226 is coupled between the line conductor 204 and the
neutral conductor 206 to provide a signal representing the voltage between the line conductor
                                                8

204 and the neutral conductor 206.         The voltage sensor 226 provides an output signal
representative of the detected voltage to the controller 222.       The controller 222 uses the
detected current and voltage from the current and voltage sensors 224 and 226 respectively to
determine whether an arc fault condition exists upstream of the arc fault protection outlet
112. Such a parallel arc fault such as the arc fault 120 in FIG. 1 may occur on the branch
wiring between the circuit breaker 110 and the arc fault protection outlet 112. If such an
upstream parallel arc fault is detected, the controller 222 closes the switching element 220.
[0039]        Under normal operations with a load plugged into one of the connectors 210 or
212, the switching element 220 is in an open position and no current will flow between the
line conductor 204 and the neutral conductor 206. Thus, in normal operation, current flows
to the connected load through the line conductor 204 and the neutral conductor 206 through
the connectors 210 and 212. The arc fault protection outlet 112 may detect a parallel arc fault
by detecting a large voltage drop between the line conductor 204 and the neutral conductor
206 via the voltage sensor 226 with no substantial increase in the current on the downstream
branch represented by the line conductor 204 from the current sensor 224. The controller 222
will close the switching element 220 when such an upstream parallel arc fault is detected.
[0040]        When the switching element 220 is closed, current flows from the line conductor
204 through the switching element 220 to the neutral conductor 206 rather than through the
parallel arc fault 120 in FIG. 1 due to the relatively lower resistance of the closed switching
element 220. Once the switching element 220 is closed, the upstream circuit breaker 110 will
trip and interrupt power to the arc fault protection outlet 112 based on the short circuited
current on the line conductor 104 exceeding the thermal-magnetic trip curve of the circuit
breaker 110 and thereby interrupting power to the parallel arc fault 120.
[00411        In this example, the controller 222 may be a microcontroller, microprocessor, a
processor, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a programmable logic controller
(PLC), a programmable logic device (PLD), a field programmable logic device (FPLD), a
field programmable gate array (FPGA), discrete logic, etc. or any other similar device. The
controller 222 may include a memory (not shown), which may include hardware, firmware,
or tangible machine-readable storage media that store instructions and data for performing the
operations described herein. Machine-readable storage media includes any mechanism that
stores information and provides the information in a form readable by a machine.              For
                                                 9

example, machine-readable storage media includes read only memory (ROM), random access
memory (RAM), magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media, flash memory, etc.
[0042]        The operation of the example decision algorithm to detect an are fault upstream
from an outlet such as the outlet 112 will now be described with reference to FIGs. 1 and 2 in
conjunction with the flow diagram shown in FIG. 3.            The flow diagram in FIG. 3 is
representative of example machine-readable instructions for implementing the processes
described above to detect an arc fault upstream from an outlet such as the arc fault protection
outlet 112 in FIG. 1. In this example, the machine readable instructions comprise an
algorithm for execution by: (a) a processor, (b) a controller, or (c) one or more other suitable
processing device(s). The algorithm can be embodied in software stored on tangible media
such as, for example, a flash memory, a CD-ROM, a floppy disk, a hard drive, a digital video
(versatile) disk (DVD), or other memory devices, but persons of ordinary skill in the art will
readily appreciate that the entire algorithm and/or parts thereof could alternatively be
executed by a device other than a processor and/or embodied in firmware or dedicated
hardware in an existing manner (e.g., it may be implemented by an application specific
integrated circuit (ASIC), a programmable logic device (PLD), a field programmable logic
device (FPLD), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), discrete logic, etc.). For example,
any or all of the components of the controller 222 in FIG. 2 could be implemented by
software, hardware, and/or firmware. Further, although the example algorithm is described
with reference to the flowchart illustrated in FIG. 3, persons of ordinary skill in the art will
readily appreciate that other methods of implementing the example machine readable
instructions might alternatively be used. For example, the order of execution of the blocks
can be changed, and/or some of the blocks described can be changed, eliminated, or
combined.
[0043]        The decision algorithm in FIG. 3 maintains a ready state. The algorithm checks
whether measurements should be taken (300).          If the measurements are not taken, the
algorithm cycles back to the ready state (300). The algorithm in this example checks for arc
faults on a periodic basis determined by the controller 222, e.g. every millisecond. If a
measurement should be taken, the algorithm measures the voltage between the line conductor
204 and the neutral conductor 206 via the voltage sensor 226 (302). The algorithm then
determines whether a voltage drop occurs based on the measured voltage (304). If no voltage
drop is sensed, the algorithm returns to the ready state (300).  If a voltage drop is determined
                                               10

(304), the algorithm measures the current on the line conductor 204 from the current sensor
224 (308). The algorithm determines whether there is an increase in current flow based on
the measured current (310). If there is an increase in current flowing on the line conductor
204 based on the measured current, the algorithm returns to the ready state (300). If there is
no increase in current flowing through the line conductor, the algorithm sends a control signal
to close the switching element 220 (310). As explained above, the switching element 220
will divert current from the parallel arc fault upstream through the switching element 220.
The diverted current will cause the upstream circuit breaker 110 to trip when the short is
detected from current flowing through the closed switching element 220, thus removing all
downstream current.
[00441       While the present invention has been described with reference to one or more
particular embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize that many changes can be
made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Each of
these embodiments and obvious variations thereof is contemplated as falling within the scope
of the claimed invention, which is set forth in the following claims.
[0045]       Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising",
will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
[00461       Furthermore, throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "include" or variations such as "includes" or
"including", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers
but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
                                                11

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      An outlet to perform arc fault protection and detection, the outlet located downstream
from a circuit breaker, the outlet comprising:
        a switching element coupled between a line conductor and a neutral conductor having
an open position and a closed position coupling the line conductor to the neutral conductor;
        a voltage sensor coupled between the line conductor and the neutral conductor;
        a current sensor coupled on the line conductor; and
        a controller coupled to the switching element, the current sensor and the voltage
sensor, the controller detecting a large voltage drop on the line conductor and no
corresponding substantial increase in current on the line conductor indicative of a parallel arc
fault between the outlet and the circuit breaker, and the controller closing the switching
element in response to the detecting, wherein the closed position of the switching element
creates a low resistance path for current flow sufficient to cause the circuit breaker to trip.
2.      The outlet of claim 1, where the switching element is a solid state transistor.
3.      The outlet of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the controller is a microcontroller.
4.      The outlet of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the controller detects a change in
current on the line conductor to detect an are fault on a second outlet coupled in series to the
line conductor downstream of the outlet.
5.      The outlet of claim 4, further comprising a contact relay on the line conductor, the
controller activating the contact relay to interrupt the line conductor when an arc fault is
detected on the second outlet downstream of the outlet.
6.      A method of determining a parallel arc fault upstream of an outlet coupled to a circuit
breaker via a line conductor and a neutral conductor, comprising:
        detecting a high voltage drop between the line conductor and neutral conductor via a
voltage sensor coupled between the line conductor and neutral conductor in the outlet;
                                                 12

        detecting no substantial corresponding increase in current via a current detector on the
line conductor at the outlet; and
        closing a switching element coupled between the line conductor and the neutral
conductor to create a low resistance current path between the line conductor and neutral
conductor when the high voltage drop and no substantial increase in current is detected,
wherein the closed position of the switching element creates a low resistance path for current
flow sufficient to cause the circuit breaker to trip.
7.      The method of claim 6, where the switching element is a solid state transistor.
8.      The method of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the switching element is closed via a
controller.
9.      The method of any one of claims 6 to 8, further comprising detecting a change in
current on the line conductor to detect an are fault on a second outlet coupled in series to the
line conductor downstream of the outlet.
10.     The method of claim 9, further comprising activating a contact relay to interrupt the
line conductor when an are fault is detected on the second outlet downstream of the outlet.
11.     A system to interrupt power when an upstream parallel arc fault is detected, the
system comprising:
        a line conductor;
        a neutral conductor;
        a circuit breaker coupled to the line conductor and the neutral conductor, the circuit
breaker interrupting the flow of power when an overcurrent condition is detected;
        an arc fault protection outlet coupled to the circuit breaker via the neutral and line
conductors, the outlet including a switching element coupled between the neutral and line
conductors, an outlet connector for connection to a load, a controller coupled to the switching
element to control the switching element, a voltage sensor coupled between the neutral and
line conductors and a current sensor coupled to the line conductor, the controller closing the
switching element to electrically couple the neutral and line conductors when a high voltage
                                                 13

drop is detected without an corresponding substantial increase in current thereby indicating
the occurrence of an arc fault between the outlet and the circuit breaker, wherein the closed
position of the switching element creates a low resistance path for current flow sufficient to
cause the circuit breaker to trip.
12.     The system of claim 11, where the switching element is a solid state transistor.
13.     The system of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the controller is a microcontroller.
                                              14

                                             FIG. 1
                                            100
                 110
                                                            112                                 114                  116
                                          104
                          120                                              130
      AC
                                                            Feed-through
                       Parallel Fault =                       Parallel Fault =
                             45A                    V               45A
                                                                                                                           1/3
102                                         Control &
                                            Comms.
                                                Arc fault                        Conventional         Conventional
                                                 Outlet                             Outlet               Outlet
           106
                             108

                                         2/3
                        FIG. 2
                                    112
             224
                                   202
                               226
                                     230    210
         204
    220
104
                            V
                                             212
              Control & Comms.
106
     206
                    222

     3/3
      FIG. 3
N     MEASUREMENT
          TIME?
           300
          Y
  MEASURE VOLTAGE
           302
N        VOLTAGE
          DROP?
           304
          Y
  MEASURE CURRENT
           308
  Y    INCREASE IN
        CURRENT?
           310
               N
   CLOSE SWITCHING
        ELEMENT
           310

