Abstract
Disclosed is a barrel cleaner (10), including a cantilevered lift to raise a barrel,
bearings (31, 32) to permit rotation of the barrel once raised, and a spray head
support (20) including a spray head. In use the barrel may be rotated so that a
bung hole of the barrel is in an insertion position, and the support can be operated
to insert the spray head into the bung hole.

                                                1
                                    BARREL CLEANER
Technical Field
[0001] The present invention relates to apparatus for cleaning barrels, particularly wine
barrels.
Background of the Invention
[0002] Wooden barrels, typically made from oak staves, are widely used in the aging of
products such as wine, spirits and some food products. These barrels are formed in
various sizes, however when used for wine they are generally in the range of 2001 to 6001,
commonly 225 - 3001.
[0003] In wine production, the barrels are used to allow for the aging of the contents, as
well as to allow for tannins and other oak characteristics to be imparted to the wine. The
barrels are typically formed from staves and sealed with 6 - 8 steel hoops, with a bung
hole formed in the bilge, the widest part of the barrel.
[0004] The relatively small bung hole and relatively large internal space of the barrel
creates a difficulty for cleaning. It is clearly not possible to manually clean most of the
interior surfaces. A common modern practice is to use a high pressure spray head
system, inserted through the bung hole from below. This is an effective cleaning
technique.
[0005] However, in order to operate such a system, the barrel must first be moved from
the storage position, generally with the bung on the upper surface, into a position with the
bung almost at the bottom of the barrel. The spray head can then be inserted on its stem,
and the barrel again adjusted so that the bung is at the lowest point. The spray head is
then operated for the required period, and the procedure reversed.
[0006] This procedure creates a lot of manual work in rotating the barrels, which typically
weigh 40 -60Kg, with consequent risks for the health and safety of workers. Further, the
procedure allows for the spray head unit to be operated before it is inserted into a barrel.
As the head typically operates with jets a pressure of about 1500-2500 psi, this is a
significant safety issue for the operator and their co-workers.
[0007] It is an object of the present invention to provide a wine barrel cleaner which
improves the safety of the operator and bystanders. Further to improved safety it is also
the object of the invention to improve efficiency in the handling and cleaning of wine
barrels.

                                             2
Summary of the Invention
[0008] In a first broad form, the present invention provides a barrel cleaning apparatus,
including a mechanism for allowing rotation of the barrel, and a spray head mounted on
a support, the support being moveable on the apparatus, so that the barrel can be rotated
and the spray head brought into an operable position inside the barrel.
[0009] According to one aspect, the present invention provides a barrel cleaner,
including a body, the body including a cantilevered lift to raise a barrel, bearings to permit
rotation of the barrel once raised, and a spray head support including a spray head,
wherein operatively the barrel may be rotated so that a bung hole of the barrel is in an
insertion position, and the support can be operated to insert the spray head into the bung
hole.
[0010] Other aspects of the present invention will be apparent from the description
below.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0011] An illustrative implementation the present invention will now be described with
reference to the accompanying figures, in which:
[0012] Figure 1 is an isometric view showing a first implementation in a starting position;
[0013] Figure 2 is a similar view to figure 1, showing the implementation in a second
partly engaged position;
[0014] Figure 3 is a similar view to figure 1, showing this implementation in a third,
operative position;
[0015] Figure 4 shows a implementation engaging with a barrel, before rotation of the
barrel;
[0016] Figure 5 shows the implementation of figure 4, with the barrel rotated and the
spray head ready to insert; and
[0017] Figure 6 shows the implementation of figure 4, with the barrel in dotted outline,
and the spray head inside the barrel.

                                               3
Detailed Description of the invention
[0018] An implementation of the present invention will now be described in detail. It will
be understood that the implementation described is only one possible implementation,
and the description is intended to be illustrative of the invention, and not limitative of its
scope.
[0019] The present invention will be described with reference to an implementation for
typical wooden barrels used in the wine industry. However, the present invention is
equally applicable to larger or smaller barrels, formed from wood, metal or other materials.
The present invention may also be applied in any suitable industry, and is not confined
only to use with wine barrels.
[0020] The present invention will be described in the context of a typical cleaning
process for wine barrels in a winery. The barrels are typically mounted on their sides on
racks, which stack for long term storage. After the contents are removed, e.g. for bottling
or blending, the barrel is cleaned before re-use.
[0021] To achieve this, in a conventional system, the barrel is manually rotated, so that
the bung hole is at a point near the lowest point of the barrel. The spray head, which is
typically mounted on wheels, is moved into position so the head is slightly inserted into
the barrel. The barrel is then further rotated, so that the bung hole is at the lowest point
of the barrel, and the spray head moves with it. The spray head is connected to a suitable
pump to drive water into the barrel, operated for the required period of typically 1-5
minutes, and turned off. After a period for drainage, the barrel is again manually rotated,
to a position where the spray head can be removed. The barrel is further manually rotated
so that the bung hole is at the top.
[0022] The implementation of the present invention which will now be described achieve
this same process, but using a single apparatus.
[0023] Referring to figure 1, this shows an apparatus 10, having handles 11, 12 and
wheel sections 30,30A. Each wheel section 30, 30A has a wheel 35 for ground
engagement, and rollers 31, 31A, 32, 32B for engaging a barrel. Rollers 31, 31A, 32, 32B
each have an angled surface 34.
[0024] Apparatus 10 also has a body 15, with an upper surface, having slots 18, 19.
Spray head support 20 is mounted so as to slide in use in slots 18, 19. Slide 20 is
operated by movement of handle 21, as will be explained further below. Slide 20 includes

                                              4
at the lower end spray head 40. Slide 20 also includes notches 22, 22A and stepped lug
23, 23A.
[0025] Figure 1 represents the apparatus 10 in a rest position. Figure 2 shows the
apparatus 10 in a partly engaged position, when the support 20 has been moved into the
bung hole 71 and just prior to operation, as will be described further below. In this
position, support 20 has been moved by sliding into a position supported by lugs 23, 23A.
Lugs 23, 23A have a stepped profile, and in this position the first step is engaged. Latch
42 prevents the support 20 moving further, by projecting through and engaging slot 22A.
[0026] In this position, it can be seen that the spray head 40 has moved some distance,
in particular along slot 41. Under slot 41 (not visible) is a mechanical engagement, which
must be actuated in order for water to flow through spray head 40. Thus, safety-latch 42
provides a protective interlock, so that until it is released, water cannot flow, and hence
the spray head 40 cannot be readily activated unless safety-latch 42 has been dis
engaged. . The mechanical engagement could alternatively be electrical, a sensor, or
any other suitable arrangement. Similarly, in other implementations the controlled switch
could be elsewhere on the apparatus, with a different form of release mechanism. For
example, a switch or sensor could be engaged elsewhere on the support frame or body,
with the release being controlled by a button or switch on the handle, either electrically or
using a mechanical cable control.
[0027] The position of figure 2 is also used for drainage after the washing is completed.
[0028] Figure 3 shows the situation where the safety latch has been released, so that
the support now rests on the second step of lugs 23, 23A, and hence the support 20 has
moved further. Spray head 40 has also moved corresponding, and the support 20 has
moved further along slot 41, so that a downwards projection (not shown) has engaged
the mechanical engagement for controlling water flow. Hence, spray operation is
commenced in this position.
[0029] Spray head 40, in use, is connected to a suitable pump or other source of
pressurised water.
[0030] The apparatus may be formed from any suitable materials. It is preferred that the
device is mainly formed from stainless steel, preferably 316 stainless steel. The wheels
and rollers may be formed from any suitable material, for example rubber or a polymer.
The rollers are preferably formed from urethane, specified to be sufficiently hard and UV
and chemical resistant.

                                                 5
[0031] The rollers shown in this implementation are tapered, in order to minimise the
contacting surface area to ensure that they roll freely. Further, the taper allows for the
barrel to be rolled so as to self- centre on the rollers, so that the lateral position of the
spray head will be correct.
[0032] The cleaning head may be of any conventional type, for example an off the shelf
barrel/Tank cleaner head from suppliers such as PA, Moog, Bolondi and other
manufacturers. These heads will operate using a variety of high pressure pumps
Alternatively more basic rinse heads can be used that utilize mains water pressure.
[0033] Figure 4 to 6 illustrate the use of the apparatus 10 with a barrel 70. Barrel 70 as
illustrated in figure 4 is of conventional type, with a bung hole 71 at the top, resting initially
on rack 72. Prior to the position of figure 4, apparatus 10 has been tilted forward, so that
front rollers 32, 32A will easily be inserted under the barrel 70. Rollers 32, 32A have then
been inserted under barrel 70, and the apparatus 10 tilted back on wheels 35, so as to
cantilever barrel 70 slightly off rack 72. Apparatus 10 then rests on feet 38, 38A and
wheels 35. Barrel 70 is therefore lifted from the rack, and resting on rollers 31, 31A, 32,
32B. Barrel 70 can then be rotated back and forward on the rollers with minimal effort by
the operator.
[0034] It is also a feature of this implementation that the apparatus 10 can be tilted
upright to the point where front rollers 32, 32A engage the ground thus allowing for
manoeuvring in very tight spaces.
[0035] It can be seen that he support 20 is in the initial position shown in figure, fully
withdrawn. The hose connections 19 for the spray head can also be seen in this view.
[0036] If bung hole 71 is not centred relative to spray head 40, rotation back and forward,
with the action of angled surfaces 34 on the rollers, will centre the barrel.
[0037] In figure 5, barrel 70 has been rotated so that the bung hole is in the position just
prior to insertion. Handle 21 has not been moved at this stage. From here, handle 21 is
slid down, so that spray head 40 enters bung hole 71, while barrel 70 is rotated to the
position where bung hole 71 is at the bottom of barrel 70.
[0038] Latch 40 can then be released, so that support 20 moves into the fully down
position and spray head 40 performs the cleaning operation. Figure 6 illustrates this state,
with barrel 70 shown as transparent and the spray head 40 inside.

                                              6
[0039] After completion, handle 21 is then moved so that the support is in the latched
but engaged position, as in figure 2. This is the position where the water is allowed to
drain for the required period. The handle 21 is then moved up, and the barrel 70 rotated,
so that the spray head 40 is removed. Barrel 70 may then be returned to the position with
bung hole 71 at the top. Apparatus 10 can then lower barrel 70 and be removed.
[0040] It can be seen that this arrangement removes the need for barrels to be lifted or
rotated against their own weight on the rack, while also allowing for the spray head to be
inserted as part of the same operation. Further, the interlock minimised the risk of unsafe
spray head operation. This improves safety and convenience for the operator.
[0041] It will be appreciated that the present invention may be implemented with many
alternative mechanic components in order to achieve a working implementation, and that
the present invention is not limited to the specific implementations described. For
example, alternative bearings could be used to allow the barrel to rotate, and additional
rollers or balls could be provided. The support shown could be different in shape or
construction, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. While the support is shown as
sliding, in other implementations it could pivot, rotate or otherwise move into the operative
position, or employ additional mechanical stages to effect movement.

                                                7
Claims
1.       A barrel cleaner, including a body, the body including a manually operable
cantilevered lift to raise a barrel, bearings to permit rotation of the barrel once raised, and
a spray head support including a spray head, wherein operatively the barrel may be
rotated so that a bung hole of the barrel is in an insertion position, and the support can
be moved to insert the spray head into the bung hole.
2.       A barrel cleaner according to claim 1, wherein an interlock is provided to prevent
operation of the spray head until the support has been moved into an operative position.
3.       A barrel cleaner according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the support is a frame
slidably mounted on the body.
4.       A barrel cleaner according to claim 3, wherein the interlock is a mechanical latch
preventing the spray head being operative until the latch is released and the frame is slid
into the operative position.
5.       A barrel cleaner according to claim 4, wherein a lug associated with the spray
head engages a valve or switch when the frame is slid into the operative position.
6.       A barrel cleaner according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the body
included rollers mounted to permit rotation of the barrel once it has been lifted.
7.       A barrel cleaner according to claim 6, wherein the body includes a pair of
supports, the rollers are mounted on the supports, and the rollers have a tapered
diameter, so that operatively, rotation of a barrel on the rollers tends to centre the barrel
relative to the rollers.
8.       A barrel cleaner according to claim 1, wherein the barrel operatively manually
rotated.
9.       A barrel cleaner according to claim 1, wherein the spray head support is
substantially protected by the body in an inoperative position.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
