                                            20
                                       ABSTRACT
        A sample chamber is configured to accommodate a target such that a portion
of the target is removable as a sample. A carrier gas injection system is configured to
introduce a carrier gas into the sample region from a first position and a second
position within the sample chamber such that at least a portion of the sample is
entrainable by the carrier gas within the sample region. A portion of the sample region
is located between the first position and the second position. A sample transport
conduit is configured to transport at least a portion of the sample entrained by the
carrier gas to a location outside the sample chamber.

WO 2014/124181                                                       PCT/US2014/015173
                                            1/3
                                                            102
                                             SAMPLE
                                           GENERATOR
                                                                144
                   126                               108
                     106     114-      110                         11214
                                                                     .128
                                                                           100
               13 2
                       15
                              54
                          1  142        118             T 118    152
                                         FGL                              J
                                           FIG. 1
                                              -0
                140
                       kN~         ANALYSIS SYSE
               1381242
                                     136         118
                                                                        128
                            1262T
              1320
                      150
                  134 .....     130. . ..
                                              . 2 ..
                                         FIG...

                                              1
 IN-CHAMBER FLUID HANDLING SYSTEM AND METHODS HANDLING
                              FLUIDS USING THE SAME
                                     BACKGROUND
[0001]           Embodiments of the present invention as exemplarily described herein
    relate generally to apparatuses for handling fluids within a chamber and to
    methods of handling fluids within a chamber.       More particularly, embodiments
    of the present invention relate to apparatuses and methods capable of effectively
    delivering a carrier gas over a target disposed within a chamber and for efficiently
    purging a chamber of a fluid.
[0002]           Analysis systems, such as mass spectrometry (MS) systems, optical
    emission spectrometry (OES) systems and the like, can be used to analyze the
    composition of a target (e.g., a solid target material). Often, a sample of the target
    is provided to an analysis system in the form of an aerosol. As is known in the
    art, an aerosol generally characterized as a colloid suspension of solid and
    possibly liquid particles in a carrier gas such as helium (He). The aerosol is
    typically produced by arranging the target in a sample chamber, introducing a
    flow of a carrier gas within the sample chamber, and ejecting a portion of the
    target (e.g., by ablating a portion of the target with laser light), in the form of
    particles. Thereafter, the ejected particles are typically entrained by the flowing
    carrier gas and transported to an analysis system via a sample transport conduit.
[0003]           Generally, the sample chamber includes an access opening that permits
    passage of the target into and out of the sample chamber. However, if the sample
    chamber is located in an environment containing atmospheric gases (e.g., oxygen,
    nitrogen, carbon dioxide, etc.) the atmospheric gases can invade the interior of the
    sample chamber whenever the target passes through the access opening.
    Atmospheric gases within the sample chamber can mix with the flowing carrier
    gas and be delivered to the analysis system with the sample. As a result, the
    quality of the analysis performed by the analysis system can be degraded due to
    the presence of the atmospheric gases with the sample. The presence of
    atmospheric gases such as oxygen and nitrogen in the sample chamber can also
    cause formation of interfering species that are ultimately transported to the

                                              2
    analysis system, which can also degrade the quality of the analysis performed by
    the analysis system. The presence of atmospheric gases within the sample
    chamber is also problematic because a varied or inhomogenous distribution of
    gases within the sample chamber can cause a different analytical response to
    samples generated from different areas of the target, ultimately leading to poor
    positional reproducibility of the analytical technique. Therefore, a user will get a
    different analytical result from the same target depending upon where the sample
    of the target was obtained.
[0004]           Conventionally, atmospheric gases are removed from the interior of the
    sample chamber via a sample transport conduit. However, the inlet of the of the
    sample transport conduit is typically arranged within a middle or upper portion of
    the sample chamber at a location selected for optimal collection of the aerosol
    generated from the target - not for purging atmospheric gases, which can be
    heavier than, or more dense than, the carrier gas. Therefore conventional
    atmospheric gas removal techniques which involve the use of the aerosol transport
    conduit are inefficient, resulting in lengthy purge times and often a residual
    amount of atmospheric gases within the sample chamber.
[0005]           Another conventional technique involves the use of a vacuum pump to
    suck out atmospheric gases from the interior of the sample chamber. In cases
    where the sample chamber is a laser ablation chamber including a transmission
    window (typically formed of quartz), a high vacuum generated by the vacuum
    pump may undesirably crack the transmission window. Therefore, the ability to
    quickly evacuate atmospheric gases from the laser ablation chamber using the
    vacuum pump can be significantly impaired.
                DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0006]           According to an exemplary embodiment there is provided an
    apparatus, comprising:
                 a sample chamber including a sample region within an interior thereof,
     the sample chamber configured to accommodate a target such that a portion of
     the target is removable as a sample;
                 a carrier gas injection system configured to introduce a carrier gas into
     the sample region from a first position and a second position within the sample
     chamber such that at least a portion of the sample is entrainable by the carrier gas

                                              3
     within the sample region, wherein a portion of the sample region is located
    between the first position and the second position; and
                 a sample transport conduit configured to transport at least a portion of
     the sample entrained by the carrier gas to a location outside the sample chamber.
[0007]           According to an exemplary embodiment there is provided an
   apparatus, comprising:
                 a sample chamber including a sample region and a purge region within
     an interior thereof, wherein the purge region is located outside the sample region,
     the sample chamber configured to accommodate a target such that a portion of
     the target is displaceable into the sample region as a sample;
                 a sample transport conduit configured to transport at least a portion of
     the sample from the sample region to a location outside the sample chamber; and
                 a purge conduit in fluid communication with the interior of the sample
     chamber, the purge conduit configured to transport a fluid from the purge region
     to a location outside the sample chamber.
[0008]           According to an exemplary embodiment there is provided an
   apparatus, comprising:
                 a sample chamber including a sample region and a purge region within
     an interior thereof, wherein the purge region is outside the sample region;
                 a target holder configured to be disposed within the interior of the
     sample chamber and support a target such that at least a portion of the target is
     disposable within the interior of the sample chamber; and
                 a purge conduit in fluid communication with the interior of the sample
     chamber, the purge conduit configured to transport a fluid present within the
    purge region to a location outside the sample chamber.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]           FIG. 1 is a cross-sectional view, taken along line I-I' shown in FIG. 2,
    schematically illustrating a portion of an apparatus including a sample chamber
   and a target holder according to one embodiment.
[0010]           FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view, taken along line II-II' shown in FIG.
    1, schematically illustrating another portion of the apparatus shown in FIG. 1.
[0011]           FIG. 3 is bottom plan view, taken along line III-III' shown in FIG. 1,
    schematically illustrating a lower portion of the target holder shown in FIG. 1.

                                              4
[0012]          FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view schematically illustrating a portion of
    an injection nozzle according to one embodiment.
[0013]          FIG. 5 is bottom plan view, taken along line V-V' shown in FIG. 4,
    schematically illustrating a lower portion of a first fluid guide shown in FIG. 4.
[0014]          FIG. 6 is bottom plan view, taken along line VI-VI' shown in FIG. 4,
    schematically illustrating an upper portion of a second fluid guide shown in FIG.
    4.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED EMBODIMENTS
[0015]          Example embodiments are described below with reference to the
    accompanying drawings. Many different forms and embodiments are possible
    without deviating from the spirit and teachings of the invention and so the
    disclosure should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set
    forth herein. Rather, these example embodiments are provided so that this
    disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will convey the scope of the
    invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings, the sizes and relative sizes of
    components may be exaggerated for clarity. The terminology used herein is for
    the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not
    intended to be limiting. As used herein, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" are
    intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates
    otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms "comprises" and/or
    "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated
    features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not
    preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps,
    operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof. Unless otherwise
    specified, a range of values, when recited, includes both the upper and lower
    limits of the range, as well as any sub-ranges therebetween.
[0016]          FIG. 1 is a cross-sectional view, taken along line I-I' shown in FIG. 2,
    schematically illustrating a portion of an apparatus including a sample chamber
    and a target holder according to one embodiment. FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional
    view, taken along line II-II' shown in FIG. 1, schematically illustrating another
    portion of the apparatus shown in FIG. 1. FIG. 3 is bottom plan view, taken along

                                              5
   line III-III' shown in FIG. 1, schematically illustrating a lower portion of the
   target holder shown in FIG. 1.
[0017]           Shown in FIGS. 1 and 2 is an apparatus including a sample chamber
    100, a sample generator 102, and an analysis system 104. The sample chamber
    100 is configured to accommodate a target, such as target T, within an interior 106
   thereof. The sample generator 102 is configured to remove a portion of the target
   T disposed within the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100, thereby generating
   a "sample" of the target T. The analysis system 104 is configured to analyze a
   composition of at least a portion of the sample. For example, the analysis system
    104 may include a mass spectrometry system, an optical emission spectrometry
    system, or the like or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the apparatus
   may further include a sample preparation system (not shown) configured to excite
   (e.g., ionize, atomize, illuminate, heat, or the like or a combination thereof) one or
   more components of at least a portion of the sample before the sample is analyzed
   by the analysis system 104.
[0018]           Generally, the sample chamber 100 is configured to facilitate removal
   of a portion of the target T by the sample generator 102 when the target T is
   accommodated within the interior 106. For example, in the illustrated
   embodiment, the sample chamber 100 may be provided as a laser ablation
   chamber, and the sample generator 102 may include one or more lasers configured
   to generate a sample of the target T by directing a beam of laser light (e.g.,
   including one or more pulses of laser light) along the direction indicted arrow 108,
   into the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100 to irradiate a region of the target T
   accommodated therein. In such an example, the sample chamber 100 may include
   an optical port 110 permitting optical communication between the sample
   generator 102 and the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100. Optionally, a
   transmission window 112 may be provided to prevent material (e.g., particles of
   the target material) from exiting the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100
   through the optical port 10. The transmission window 112 is typically formed of a
   material (e.g., quartz) that is at least substantially transparent to the laser pulses
   generated by the sample generator 102. The transmission window 112 may also
   be sealed to the sample chamber 100 to prevent dust, debris or other unwanted
   gases or other sources of contamination from entering into the interior 106
   through the optical port 110. One or more characteristics such as wavelength

                                             6
   (e.g., in a range from about 157 nm to about 11 pm, such as 193 nm, 213 nm, 266
   nm, or the like), pulse duration (e.g., in a range from about 100 femtoseconds to
   about 25 nanoseconds), spot size, pulse energy, average power, peak power,
   temporal profile, etc., of each laser pulse can be selected or otherwise controlled
   to ablate material of target T that is located within or adjacent to the irradiated
   region. The sample generator 102 may also include laser optics (e.g., one or
   more lenses, beam expanders, collimators, apertures, mirrors, etc.) configured to
   modify laser light generated by one or more of the lasers.
[0019]          As used herein, the removal of material by laser ablation can involve
   one or more mechanisms such as opto-electronic absorption of laser energy at the
    surface of the target T, energy transfer from initially-excited electrons to acoustic
   phonons, thermal heating of the surface of the target T, plasma initiation above the
    surface of the target T, cooling and conglomeration of particles and particle
   clusters, phase explosion causing ejection of particulates, exfoliation of material
   flakes, generation of chips, and the like. Upon being ablated, material of target T
   that is located within or adjacent to the irradiated region (also referred to herein as
   "target material") is ejected, displaced or otherwise transported from the target T
   as a sample, typically in the form of a plume containing particles, etc., of the
   target material. The region of the interior 106 into which the sample can be
   ejected, displaced or otherwise transported is referred to herein as a sample region
    114. Thus, the sample region 114 may extend along a first direction (e.g., along a
   vertical direction, as illustrated) within the interior 106, from the target T towards
   the optical port 110, and may also extend along a second direction (e.g., along a
   lateral direction, as illustrated) toward sides of the sample chamber 100.
[0020]          In one embodiment, the target T may be positionally fixed relative to
   the beam of laser light output by the sample generator 102 when the target T is
   accommodated within the interior 106. In another embodiment, however, the
   target T may be moved relative to the beam of laser light output by the sample
   generator 102 when the target T is accommodated within the interior 106.          For
   example, one or both of the sample generator 102 and the beam 108 may be
   moved or scanned relative to the transmission window 110. In another example,
   the target T may be moved within the interior 106 relative to one or both of the
    sample chamber 100 and the sample generator 102. In yet another example, the
    sample chamber 100 may be moved relative to the sample generator 102. Thus it

                                              7
   will be appreciated that the lateral extent of the sample region 114 may also
   correspond to the degree of relative movement achievable between one or more of
   the target T, the sample chamber 100, the sample generator 102, and the beam of
   laser light output by the sample generator 102.
[0021]          To facilitate analysis of at least a portion of the removed portion of the
   target T by the analysis system 104, the apparatus may include a sample transport
   conduit 118 configured to transport at least a portion of the sample from a location
   within the interior 106 to a location outside the sample chamber 100. As best
    shown in FIG. 2, the sample transport conduit 118 may be provided as a pipe or
   tube extending through the sample chamber 100 so as to be in fluid
   communication with the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100. The sample
   transport conduit 118 generally includes an inlet 120 located at one end thereof
   and configured to receive or otherwise collect at least a portion of the sample
   ejected from the target T, and an outlet located at another end thereof, which is
   fluidly coupled to the analysis system 104 (or to the sample preparation system).
   Constructed as described above, the sample transport conduit 118 is configured to
   transport at least a portion of the sample received at the inlet 120 through the
   outlet thereof.
[0022]          In the embodiment exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 2, the sample
   transport conduit 118 is inserted through a sample port extending through the
    sample chamber 100 to extend beyond the sample chamber 100 and into the
   interior 106 such that the inlet 120 is disposed within the sample region 114. In
   other embodiments, however, the sample transport conduit 118 is inserted
   partially or only completely through the sample port such that the inlet 120 is
   disposed within the sample chamber 100 and is either flush with, or recessed
   relative to, an adjacent surface of the sample chamber 100 exposed to the interior
    106. The inlet 120 may be positionally fixed relative to the body of the sample
   transport conduit 118 (i.e., the sample transport conduit 118 may be a
    substantially rigid structure), or may be positionally variable relative to the body
   of the sample transport conduit 118 (i.e., the sample transport conduit 118 is a
   flexible structure). The position of the inlet 120 relative to the interior 106 may be
   fixed or may be variable. Further, the position of the inlet 120 relative to the
    sample generator 102 or a beam of laser light output by the sample generator 102
   may be fixed or may be variable.

                                             8
[0023]         In the embodiment exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 2, a sample cell 122
   may be coupled to the inlet 120 and extend along the aforementioned first
   direction from the inlet 120 to be closely adjacent to the target T. The sample cell
    122 may have a generally annular shape defining a central sample collection
   region 124 open at a first end at a location relatively close to the target T and at a
    second end at a location relatively distant from the target T. The sample cell 122
   may be structured such that the beam of laser light transmitted into the interior
    106 through the transmission window 112 and optical port 110 is also
   transmittable through the first and second ends of the central sample collection
   region 124 before impinging upon the target T. At least a portion of the sample
   ejected from the target T is transferred into the central sample collection region
    124 through the first end thereof. Once transferred into the central sample
   collection region 124, the sample can be collected into the inlet 120 and thereafter
   transported to the analysis system 104 either directly from the sample transport
   conduit 118 or via the sample preparation system.
[0024]         To facilitate collection of the sample into the inlet 120, the apparatus
   may further include a carrier gas injection system configured to introduce carrier
   gas into the sample region 114 such that such that at least a portion of the sample
   is entrainable by the carrier gas within the sample region 114. Generally, the
   carrier gas is selected to be at least substantially inert with respect to the sample
   generated within the interior 106. Helium is an example of such a suitable carrier
   gas. It will be appreciated that the carrier gas, along with the portion of the
    sample entrained with the carrier gas, may be received at the inlet 120 (either
   directly, or indirectly via the sample collection cup 122).
[0025]         Generally, carrier gas injection system may include injection nozzles
   configured to introduce separate streams or flows of carrier gas into the sample
   region 114 from different positions within the interior 106, and along different
   directions into the sample region 114.      For example, the carrier gas injection
    system may include injection nozzles, such as first injection nozzle 126 and
    second injection nozzle 128, each configured introduce a separate flow of a carrier
   gas into the sample region 114. The first injection nozzle 126 may be configured
   to introduce a first flow of carrier gas, travelling substantially in a first direction
   from a first position within the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100, into the
    sample region 114. The second injection nozzle 128 may be configured to

                                            9
   introduce a second flow of carrier gas, travelling substantially in a second
   direction from a second position within the interior 106 of the sample chamber
    100, into the sample region 114. As exemplarily illustrated, at least a portion of
   the sample region 114 is located (e.g., laterally) between the first position and the
    second position. As exemplarily illustrated, the first and second directions are
   different from one another.
[0026]          Although the carrier gas injection system is illustrated as including
   only two injection nozzles 126 and 128, it will be appreciated that the carrier gas
   injection system may include a single injection nozzle (e.g., injection nozzle 126
   or 128) or more than two injection nozzles. In other embodiments, different
   injection nozzles of the carrier gas injection system may be configured to
   introduce separate flows of carrier gas into the sample region 114 along the same
   direction into the sample region 114 from different positions within the interior
    106. One or more characteristics of a flow of carrier gas (e.g., including flow rate,
   volume, cross-sectional shape or size, pressure, carrier gas composition, etc.)
   introduced into the sample region 114 by one injection nozzle may be same as or
   different from one or more corresponding characteristics of a flow of carrier gas
   introduced into the sample region 114 by another injection nozzle.
[0027]          Generally, each injection nozzle of the carrier gas injection system is
   configured to introduce a uniform flow (or at least substantially uniform flow) of
   carrier gas into the sample region 114 and across a portion of the surface (or
   across the entire surface) of the target T. The carrier gas is introduced by an
   injection nozzle such that the flow of the carrier gas across the surface of the
   target T is laminar or at least quasi-laminar. In the illustrated embodiment, the
   aforementioned first and second directions both extend substantially along a
   common axis (e.g., such that the first and second directions substantially oppose
   one another). In other embodiments, however, the first and second directions may
   extend along axes that are oblique or perpendicular with respect to one another.
   Upon providing a substantially uniform flow of carrier gas, which travels in any
   particular direction along an axis, the flow can be characterized as having a width,
   measurable along a direction that is transverse to the axis. Generally, the width of
   any particular flow of carrier gas can be in a range from 10 mm to 1 m. It will be
   appreciated, however, that the width of any particular flow of carrier gas can be
   less than 10 mm or greater than 1 m. Moreover, the width of a flow introduced by

                                             10
   one injection nozzle may be greater than or equal to the width of a flow
   introduced by another injection nozzle. Although flows of carrier gas have been
   described above as being substantially uniform, it will be appreciated that one or
   more or all of the injection nozzles of the carrier gas injection system can be
   configured to introduce a flow of carrier gas into the sample region 114 that is
   divergent or convergent.
[0028]         As exemplarily illustrated, the sample chamber 100 is provided with an
   access opening, such as access opening that can be opened and closed (e.g., by an
   access door or hatch 130). The access opening is structured to permit passage of
   the target T into and out of the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100. For
   example, to arrange the target T within the interior 106 of the sample chamber
    100, the access opening may be opened by opening the access door 130 or
   otherwise removing the access door 130 from the sample chamber 100. Upon
   opening the access opening, the target T may be inserted through the access
   opening into the interior 106, and atmospheric gases (e.g., oxygen, nitrogen,
   carbon dioxide, etc.) or other gases (e.g., organic or inorganic pollutants, solvent
   vapors, etc.), collectively referred to as a "fluid", may invade or otherwise be
   introduced into the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100 (e.g., including the
   regions of the interior 106 within the sample region 114 and outside the sample
   region 114). Generally, the fluid is heavier than, or more dense than, the carrier
   gas. Thereafter, the access opening may be closed by closing the opening door
    130 or otherwise coupling the access door 130 to the sample chamber 100 so as to
   fluidly isolate the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100 from the environment
   outside the sample chamber 100.
[0029]         In embodiments where it would be desirable to facilitate removal of
   the above-described fluid from the interior 106 before generating a sample of the
   target T, the apparatus may include a purge conduit, such as purge conduit 132,
   configured to transport at least a portion of the fluid from the interior 106 to a
   location outside the sample chamber 100. As best shown in FIG. 2, the purge
   conduit 132 may be provided as a pipe or tube, inserted into a purge port
   extending through the sample chamber 100 so as to be in fluid communication
   with the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100. The purge conduit 132 generally
   includes an inlet 134 located at one end thereof and configured to receive or
   otherwise collect at least a portion of the fluid introduced into the interior of the

                                             11
   chamber 106, and an outlet located at another end of the purge conduit 132. In
   one embodiment, the inlet 134 is disposed at a lowermost region of the interior
    106 of the sample chamber 100. In the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2,
   the apparatus includes only a single purge conduit 132 having a single inlet 134.
   It will be appreciated, however, that the apparatus may include any number of
   purge conduits 132, each having any number of inlets 134.
[0030]          To remove at least a portion of the fluid introduced into the interior
    106, a purge process may be implemented in which a purge gas is introduced into
   the interior 106 in a state in which the interior 106 is fluidly isolated from the
   environment outside the sample chamber 100. Generally, the purge gas may be
   lighter than, or less dense than, the fluid. In one embodiment, the purge gas may
   be the same as the carrier gas (e.g., helium). In another embodiment, the purge
   gas is introduced into the interior 106 via the carrier gas injection system, but may
   be different from the carrier gas. In one embodiment, a valve coupling the sample
   transport conduit 118 to the analysis system 104 (or to the sample preparation
    system), such as valve 136, may be closed to fluidly disconnect the interior of the
    sample transport conduit 118 and a valve coupled to the purge conduit 132 outside
   the sample chamber 100, such as valve 138 may be opened to fluidly connect the
   inlet 134 of the purge conduit 132 to a region or environment outside the sample
   chamber 100. As purge gas is introduced into the interior 106, the fluid present
   within the interior 106 is displaced downwardly to the lower portion into the
   purge region of the interior 106, where it is efficiently collected into the inlet 134
   of the purge conduit 132 and transported within the purge conduit 132 to a
   location outside the sample chamber 100 (e.g., as indicated by arrow 140). After
   the fluid is beneficially or completely removed from the interior 106, the sample
   generator 102 may be operated to generate a sample of the target T in the manner
   described above.
[0031]          Removal of fluid from the interior 106 in the manner described above
   ensures at least substantially the same (or beneficially similar) conditions for
    sample generation, sample excitation, sample analysis, etc., independent of
    sampling position on the target T within the interior 106. This, therefore, leads to
   improved positional reproducibility and, in turn, ensures more accurate, more
   precise analytical data is generated by the analysis system 104. Removal of fluid
   from the interior 106 in the manner described above also ensures that the amount

                                            12
   of the undesirably introduced fluid within the interior 106 can be brought down to
   acceptable levels (or removed entirely) relatively quickly, which can lead to
   higher sample throughput and cost savings via reduced usage of purge or carrier
   gas.
[0032]          In one embodiment, and as best illustrated in FIG. 1, the apparatus may
   include a target holder, such as target holder 142, configured to be disposed within
   the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100 and support the target T within the
   interior 106. The target holder 142 may be moveable within the interior 106
   relative to the inlet 120 of the sample transport conduit 118, may be moveable
   within the interior 106 relative to the sample chamber 100, or the like or a
   combination thereof. In one embodiment, the aforementioned access opening may
   be structured to permit passage of the target holder 142 (with or without the target
   T supported thereon) into and out of the interior 106 of the sample chamber 100.
[0033]          Referring now to FIGS. 1 to 3, the target holder 142 include a base 144
   having a support surface 146 configured to physically contact the target T. The
   target holder 142 may further include a target fence 148 extending upwardly from
   the support surface 146. Thus the support surface 146 and target fence 148 may
   define a basin having a depth (e.g., corresponding to the height to which the target
   fence 148 extends above the support surface 146) within which the target T is
    supportable. During the aforementioned purge process, fluid within the interior
    106 at a region above the support surface 146 may collect within the basin of the
   target holder 142 and be undesirably prevented from being transferred into the
   inlet 134 of the purge conduit 132. To enable fluid within the basin to be
   collected into the inlet 134 of the purge conduit 132, one or more fluid transport
   conduits may be provided to extend through the base 144, the target fence 148, or
   the like or a combination thereof. Generally, such fluid transport conduits may
   include a first end in fluid communication with the basin and a second end in fluid
   communication with a region of the interior 106 outside the basin. The target
   holder 142 may include any number of fluid transport conduits, provided in any
    shape or combination of shapes, and arranged within the target holder 142 in any
   manner (e.g., in an regular pattern or array, randomly, in locations corresponding
   to the location of one or more injection nozzles). Constructed as described above,
   a fluid transport conduit can allow fluid, which would otherwise be trapped within
   the basin during the purge process, to be displaced out of the basin and into the

                                              13
    purge region of the interior 106. In one embodiment, the second end of a fluid
    transport conduit may be elevationally lower than the first end thereof.
[0034]           In the exemplarily illustrated embodiment, the target holder 142 can
    further include a foundation 150 extending downwardly from the base 144 to
    contact a lower surface of the sample chamber 100 defining the interior 106, and a
    slit-shaped fluid transport conduit 152 extending through the base 144. The base
    144, the foundation 150 and the lower surface of the sample chamber 100 defining
    the interior 106 can be conceptually considered as defining a purge reservoir 154
    that is in fluid communication with the fluid transport conduit 152. As illustrated,
    the fluid transport conduit 152 includes a first end in fluid communication with
    the basin (e.g., adjacent to the support surface 146) and a second end in fluid
    communication with the purge reservoir 154. A reservoir outlet 300 (see FIG. 3)
    extends through the foundation 150 and is configured to transmit fluid from the
    purge reservoir 154 into the purge region of the interior 106. For example, the
    reservoir outlet 300 may include a first end configured to receive fluid from the
    purge reservoir 154 and a second end located proximate to the inlet 134 of the
    purge conduit 132 at the purge region. Constructed as described above, the fluid
    transport conduit 152 can allow fluid, which would otherwise be trapped within
    the basin during the purge process, to be displaced out of the basin and into the
    purge reservoir 154, and fluid in the purge reservoir 154 can thereafter be
    transferred to the inlet 134 of the purge conduit 132 via the reservoir outlet 300.
[0035]           In the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2, a gap exists between
    the target holder 142 and the surface of the sample chamber 100 defining the
    interior 106, through which fluid can flow into the purge region to be collected
    into the inlet 134 of the purge conduit 132. It will be appreciated, however, that
    the target holder 142 and the sample chamber 100 can be configured such that no
    gap exists therebetween through which fluid can flow into the purge region.
[0036]           It will be appreciated that any of the aforementioned injection nozzles
    may be configured in any suitable or beneficial manner to generate the flows of
    carrier gas as described above. In one embodiment, an injection nozzle of the
    carrier gas injection system may include an inlet configured to receive an input
    stream of the carrier gas and an outlet configured to eject the carrier gas into the
    interior 106 of the sample chamber 100. The outlet may include a cover having a
    slit formed therein to shape the flow of ejected carrier gas. In other embodiments,

                                             14
   the cover may have a line of closely-spaced holes, an array of micro-holes, etc. to
    shape the flow of ejected carrier gas. In another embodiment, the outlet may
   include a laminar insert configured to shape the flow of the ejected carrier gas. In
   one embodiment, the injection nozzle may include a stream modification section
   configured to modify at least one characteristic (e.g., flow rate, direction of flow,
   cross-sectional shape, pressure, etc.) of the input stream to thereby form a
   modified stream of the carrier gas. In such an embodiment, the outlet may be
   configured to eject the carrier gas having the modified characteristic(s) into the
   interior 106 of the sample chamber 100.
[0037]          FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view schematically illustrating a portion of
   an injection nozzle according to one embodiment. FIG. 5 is bottom plan view,
   taken along line V-V' shown in FIG. 4, schematically illustrating a lower portion
   of a first fluid guide shown in FIG. 4. FIG. 6 is bottom plan view, taken along
   line VI-VI' shown in FIG. 4, schematically illustrating an upper portion of a
    second fluid guide shown in FIG. 4.
[0038]          In one embodiment, any of the injection nozzles of the carrier gas
   injection system may be configured as exemplarily shown in FIG. 4. Referring to
   FIG. 4, an injection nozzle, such as injection nozzle 400, may include a first body
   portion 402 and a second body portion 404 adapted to be coupled to each other.
   An inlet configured to receive a stream of a gas (e.g., a carrier gas) may be formed
   in the first body portion 402, and an outlet configured to eject a flow of gas into
   the interior 106 may also be formed in the first body portion 402. A mounting
   flange 410 may be provided on the first body portion 402, which can be used to
   couple the injection nozzle 400 to the sample chamber 100. The first body portion
   402 can define a cavity configured to receive a first fluid guide 410 and a second
   fluid guide 412, each of which may be provided as blocks of material (e.g.,
   polymeric material, metallic material, etc.) having channels or grooves formed
   therein to direct, shape or otherwise modify a flow of gas.
[0039]          Referring to FIGS. 4 and 5, the first fluid guide 412 can include a first
   guide channel 416 defined therein configured to transport a gas from the inlet 406
   to a first expansion channel 500, which is configured to spread the flow of gas
   toward a second guide channel 418. Referring to FIGS. 4 and 6, the second fluid
   guide 414 can include a third guide channel 420 defined therein configured to
   transport a gas from the second guide channel 416 to a second expansion channel

                                              15
   422, which is configured to spread the flow of gas toward the outlet 408. When
   the first and second fluid guides 412 and 414 are disposed within the cavity
   defined by the first body portion, an end of the first guide channel 416 is aligned
   to the inlet 406, the second guide channel 418 is aligned to the third guide channel
   420, and the end of the second expansion channel 422 is aligned with the outlet
   408.
[0040]          The foregoing is illustrative of example embodiments of the invention
   and is not to be construed as limiting thereof. Although a few example
   embodiments have been described, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate
   that many modifications are possible without materially departing from the novel
   teachings and advantages of the invention. Accordingly, all such modifications are
   intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined in the
   following claims.
[0041]          Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the
   description and the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are
   to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive
    sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited to".

                                              16
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.      An apparatus, comprising:
        a sample chamber including a sample region within an interior thereof, the
sample chamber configured to accommodate a target such that a portion of the target
is removable as a sample;
        a carrier gas injection system configured to introduce a carrier gas into the
sample region from a first position and a second position within the sample chamber
such that at least a portion of the sample is entrainable by the carrier gas within the
sample region, wherein a portion of the sample region is located between the first
position and the second position; and
        a sample transport conduit configured to transport at least a portion of the
sample entrained by the carrier gas to a location outside the sample chamber.
2.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein
        the carrier gas injection system configured to introduce a first flow of a carrier
gas travelling substantially in a first direction into the sample region and a second
flow of a carrier gas travelling substantially in a second direction into the sample
region such that at least a portion of the sample is entrainable by the carrier gas within
the sample region, wherein the first direction is different from the second direction.
3.      The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the carrier gas injection system is
configured such that the first direction extends along an axis that is at least
substantially parallel to an axis along which the second direction extends.
4.      The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the carrier gas injection system is
configured such that the first flow first flow has a width, measured along a direction
transverse the to the axis along which the first flow extends, that is greater than 10
mm.
5.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carrier gas injection system includes at
least one injection nozzle.
6.      The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the at least one injection nozzle includes:
         an inlet configured to receive an input stream of the carrier gas;
        a stream modification section configured to modify at least one characteristic
of the input stream, thereby forming a modified stream of the carrier gas; and

                                             17
        an outlet configured to eject the modified stream of the carrier gas into the
interior of the sample chamber,
        wherein the modified stream has at least one characteristic that is different
from that of the input stream.
7.      The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the at least one characteristic is selected
from the group consisting of flow rate, direction of flow, cross-sectional shape and
pressure.
8.      The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a purge conduit in fluid
communication with the interior of the sample chamber, the purge conduit configured
to transport a fluid from a purge region outside the sample region to a location outside
the sample chamber.
9.      An apparatus, comprising:
        a sample chamber including a sample region and a purge region within an
interior thereof, wherein the purge region is located outside the sample region, the
sample chamber configured to accommodate a target such that a portion of the target
is displaceable into the sample region as a sample;
        a sample transport conduit configured to transport at least a portion of the
sample from the sample region to a location outside the sample chamber; and
        a purge conduit in fluid communication with the interior of the sample
chamber, the purge conduit configured to transport a fluid from the purge region to a
location outside the sample chamber.
10.     The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the sample chamber includes an access
opening configured to permit at least one selected from the group consisting of:
passage of the target into the interior of the sample chamber, and passage of the target
out from the interior of the sample chamber.
11.     The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a carrier gas injection system
configured to introduce a carrier gas into the sample region such that at least a portion
of the sample is entrainable by the carrier gas within the sample region.
12.     An apparatus, comprising:

                                              18
         a sample chamber including a sample region and a purge region within an
interior thereof, wherein the purge region is outside the sample region;
         a target holder configured to be disposed within the interior of the sample
chamber and support a target such that at least a portion of the target is disposable
within the interior of the sample chamber; and
         a purge conduit in fluid communication with the interior of the sample
chamber, the purge conduit configured to transport a fluid present within the purge
region to a location outside the sample chamber.
13.      The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a sample transport conduit
configured to transport at least a portion of the carrier gas from the sample region to a
location outside the sample chamber.
14.      The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the target holder is moveable relative to an
inlet of the sample transport conduit.
15.      The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the target holder is moveable relative to
the sample chamber.
16.      The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the target holder comprises:
         a base having a support surface configured to physically contact the target; and
         at least one fluid transport conduit having a first end adjacent to the support
surface and a second end in fluid communication with the purge region.
17.      The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one fluid transport conduit
comprises conduit having a slit-shaped opening at its first end disposed along a side of
the support surface, and extends through the base of the target holder to the purge
region.
18.      The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the target holder is configured so that
when the target holder is disposed within the interior of the sample chamber a purge
reservoir is defined below the sample region, and comprises the purge region, the
purge reservoir having an outlet in fluid communication with an inlet of the purge
conduit.

                                            19
19.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the purge region is located below the
sample region.
20.     The apparatus of claim 12, wherein a density of the fluid is greater than a
density of the carrier gas.
21.     The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the fluid includes oxygen gas.
22.     The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the fluid includes carbon dioxide gas.
23.     The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the carrier gas includes helium.
24.     The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a sample generator configured
to remove or displace the portion of the target.
25.     The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the sample generator includes a laser
system configured to direct a laser pulse into the sample region.
26.     The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the laser pulse is configured to ablate a
material from which the target is formed.
27.     The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a sample analysis system
configured to analyze a composition of at least a portion of the sample transported by
the sample transport conduit.
28.     The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the sample analysis system includes a
mass spectrometry system.
29.     The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a sample preparation system
configured to excite at least one component of at least a portion of the sample
transported by the sample transport conduit.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
