                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to ternary herbicidally active compositions, which comprise a) 5
ethyl-2-[(RS)-4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazolin-2-yl]nicotinic acid (common name:
imazethapyr) and 2-[(RS)-4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazolin-2-yl]-5
methoxymethylnicotinic acid (common name: imazamox) and
b) at least one herbicide selected from the group consisting of 5-(2-chloro-a,a,a-trifluoro-p
tolyloxy)-N-mesyl-2-nitrobenzamide (common name: fomesafen),
2',4'-dichloro-5'-(4-difluoromethyl-4,5-dihydro-3-methyl-5-oxo-1 H-1,2,4-triazol-1
yl)methanesulfonanilide (common name: sulfentrazone) and 3-isopropyl-1 H-2,1,3
benzothiadiazin-4(3H)-one 2,2-dioxide (common name: bentazone).

                                                        1
   Herbicial mixtures comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and fomesafen, sulfentrazone or
   bentazone
   Field of the invention
 5
   The present invention relates to ternary herbicidally active compositions, which comprise a) 5
   ethyl-2-[(RS)-4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazolin-2-yl]nicotinic acid (common name:
   imazethapyr) and 2-[(RS)-4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazolin-2-y]-5
   methoxymethynicotinic acid (common name: imazamox) and
 0 b) at least one herbicide selected from the group consisting of 5-(2-chloro-a,a,a-trifluoro-p
   tolyloxy)-N-mesyl-2-nitrobenzamide (common name: fomesafen),
   2',4'-dichloro-5'-(4-difluoromethyl-4,5-dihydro-3-methyl-5-oxo-1 H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)methanesulfonanilide (common name: sulfentrazone) and 3-isopropyl-1H-2,1,3
   benzothiadiazin-4(3H)-one 2,2-dioxide (common name: bentazone).
 5
   Background of the invention
   In crop protection, it is desirable in principle to increase the specificity and the reliability of the
   action of active compounds. In particular, it is desirable for the crop protection product to control
 0 the harmful plants effectively and, at the same time, to be tolerated by the useful plants in
   question.
   5-ethyl-2-[(RS)-4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazolin-2-yl]nicotinic acid (common name:
   imazethapyr; formula I) is an active compound from the group of imidazolinone herbicides,
 5 which are known e.g. from Shaner, D. L., O' Conner, S.L, The Imidazolinone Herbicides, CRC
   Press Inc., Boca Raton, Florida 1991 and also from The Compendium of Pesticide Common
   Names http://w       .alanwood.net/pesticides/.
                                   HaG
                                 HaC           CH,
                                N                            I
                     HO     O
30
   2-[(RS)-4-isopropyl-4-methyl-5-oxo-2-imidazolin-2-yl]-5-methoxymethynicotinic acid (common
   name: imazamox; formula 1l)is an active compound from the group of imidazolinone herbicides,
   which are known e.g. from Shaner, D. L. O' Conner, S.L The Imidazolinone Herbicides, CRC
35 Press Inc., Boca Raton, Florida 1991 and also from The Compendium of Pesticide Common

                                                     2
   Names http://www.alanwood.net/pesticides/.
                    H                CH,-DH
            0       N   I1I                             1
    CHi-CH             N
           CH3     CH3
 5 5-(2-chloro-a,a,a-trifluoro-p-tolyloxy)-N-mesyl-2-nitrobenzamide (common name: fomesafen,
   formula Ill) is an active compound that inhibits protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase (PPO).
                                0     0
                    O                     CH3III
                      I       I    N-S~H
                                      0
    F3 C            CI          NO 2
 0 2',4'-dichloro-5'-(4-difluoromethyl-4,5-dihydro-3-methyl-5-oxo-1 H- 1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)methanesulfonanilide (common name: sulfentrazone, formula IV) is an active compound that
   inhibits protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase (PPO).
                     0 0
                   HN    Me
                         C1
    Me> N    _IV
            N'N
               NECI
          F
.5 3-isopropyl-1H-2,1,3-benzothiadiazin-4(3H)-one 2,2-dioxide (common name: bentazone;
   formula V) is an active compound from the group of thiadiazine herbicides.
              O
                 N
              N
              H   0
20 Herbicidal combinations of imazethapyr and imazamox are known to be highly effective as pre
   and post-emergence herbicides; for example, such a combination is commercialized under the
   brand name Odyssey@. Still, in some cases such combinations do not provide a sufficient
   control of the relevant harmful plants and their activity at low application rates is not always
   satisfactory. Apart from that, their compatibility with certain dicotyledonous crop plants such as
25 soybean, peanuts or other pulse or leguminous crops is not always satisfactory, i.e. in addition
   to the harmful plants, the crop plants are also damaged to an extent which is not acceptable.

                                                     3
   Though it is in principle possible to spare crop plants by lowering the application rates, the
   extent of the control of harmful plants is naturally also reduced.
   Detailed description of the invention
 5
   It is an object of the present invention to provide herbicidal compositions, which show enhanced
   herbicide action against undesirable harmful plants, in particular against Acalypha species such
   as Acalypha indica, Dinebra species such as Dinebra Arabica, Cynotis spec such as Cynotis
   axillaris, Parthenium spec such as Parthenium hysterophorus, Physals spec such as Physalis
 0 minima, Digera spec such as Digera arvensis, Alopecurus myosuroides, Apera spicaventi,
   Ambrosia spec. such as Ambrosia artemisiifoia, Conyza spec. such as Conyza canadensis,
   Con volvulus s pec. such as Con volvulus arvensis, Echinochloa s pec. such as Echinochloa
   colonum and Echinochloa crus-gall, Rottboella cochinchinensis, Dgigtara spec. such as
   Digitaria sanguinals, Eleusine indIca, Saccharum spontaneum, Cynodon dactylon, Euphorbia
 5 hirta, Euphorbia geniculata, Commelina benghalensis, Commelina communes, Celos/a argentea,
   Xanthium strumarium, Papa ver rhoeas, Polygonum s pec. such as Polygonum persicaria,
   Panicum spec. such as Panicum milaceum, Geranium spec. such as Geranium dissectum,
   Brassica spec, Avena fatua, Bromus spec., Echinocloa spec., Leptochloa spec. such as
   Leptochloa fusca, Lolium spec., Phalaris spec. such as Phalaris canariensis, Setaria spec. such
 0 as Setaria faber, Sesbania spec. such as Sesbania exaltata, , Brachiaria spec. such as
   Brachiaria decumbens, Amaranthus spec., Chenopodium spec., Abutilon spec. such as Abutilon
   theophrasti Galium aparine, Veronica spec., or Solanum spec. and/or to improve their
   compatibility with crop plants, such as soybean, peanut, pea, bean, lentil, green gram, black
   gram, cluster bean, fenugreek, other pulse or leguminous crops, or crops which are tolerant to
 5 the action of acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibiting herbicides, such as for example Clearfield@
   wheat, Clearfield@ barley, Clearfield@ corn, Clearfield@ lentil, Clearfield@ oilseed rape or
   canola, Clearfield@ rice, Cultivance@ soybean and/or Clearfield@ sunflower. The composition
   should also have a good pre-emergence herbicidal activity.
30 We consider this object to be achievable, by herbicidally active compositions comprising
        a) the combination of imazethapyr, agriculturally acceptable salts thereof and imazamox,
            agriculturally acceptable salts thereof (collectively hereinafter also referred to as
            herbicide A); and
         b) at least one herbicide B selected from the group of fomesafen, agriculturally acceptable
35          salts thereof, sulfentrazone, agriculturally acceptable salts thereof and bentazone and
            agriculturally acceptable salts thereof.
   The invention relates in particular to compositions in the form of herbicidally active compositions
   as defined above.
40
   The invention furthermore relates to the use of compositions as defined herein for controlling
   undesirable vegetation in crops. When using the compositions of the invention for this purpose

                                                    4
   the herbicide A and the at least one herbicide B can be applied simultaneously or in succession
   in crops, where undesirable vegetation may occur.
   The invention furthermore relates to the use of compositions as defined herein for controlling
 5 undesirable vegetation in crops which, by genetic engineering or by breeding, are tolerant to
   one or more herbicides, e.g. acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibiting herbicides such as
   imazethapyr, and/or pathogens such as plant-pathogenous fungi, and/or to attack by insects;
   preferably tolerant to one or more herbicides that act as acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibitors.
 o The invention furthermore relates to a method for controlling undesirable vegetation, which
   comprises applying an herbicidal composition according to the present invention to the
   undesirable plants. Application can be done before, during and/or after, preferably during and/or
   after, the emergence of the undesirable plants. The herbicide A and the at least one herbicide B
   can be applied simultaneously or in succession.
 5
   The invention in particular relates to a method for controlling undesirable vegetation in crops,
   which comprises applying an herbicidal composition according to the present invention in crops
   where undesirable vegetation occurs or might occur.
 o The invention furthermore relates to a method for controlling undesirable vegetation, which
   comprises allowing a composition according to the present invention to act on plants, their
   habitat or on seed.
   In the methods of the present invention it is immaterial whether the combination of herbicide A
 5 and the at least one herbicide B are formulated and applied jointly or separately, and, in the
   case of separate application, in which order the application takes place. It is only necessary,
   that the combination of herbicide A and the at least one herbicide B are applied in a time frame,
   which allows simultaneous action of the active ingredients on the plants.
30 In the methods of the present invention it is further immaterial whether the components of
   herbicide A, i.e. imazethapyr and imazamox and the at least one herbicide are formulated and
   applied jointly or separately, and, in the case of separate application, in which order the
   application takes place. It is only necessary, that the components of herbicide A and the at least
   one herbicide B are applied in a time frame, which allows simultaneous action of the active
35 ingredients on the plants.
   The invention also relates to an herbicide formulation, which comprises a herbicidally active
   composition as defined herein and at least one carrier material, including liquid and/or solid
   carrier materials.
40
   It is believed that the compositions according to the invention have better herbicidal activity
   against harmful plants than would have been expected by the herbicidal activity of the individual

                                                  5
   compounds. In other words, the joint action of the imazethapyr + imazamox combination and
   the at least one herbicide B results in an enhanced activity against harmful plants in the sense
   of a synergy effect (synergism). For this reason, the compositions can, based on the individual
   components, be used at lower application rates to achieve a herbicidal effect comparable to the
 5 individual components. The compositions of the invention also show an accelerated action on
   harmful plants, i.e. damaging of the harmful plants is achieved more quickly in comparison with
   application of the individual herbicides. Moreover, the compositions of the present invention
   provide good pre-emergence herbicidal activity, i.e. the compositions are particularly useful for
   combating/controlling harmful plants before their emergence. Apart from that, the compositions
 0 of the present invention show good crop compatibility, i.e. their use in crops leads to a reduced
   damage of the crop plants.
   As used herein, the terms "controlling" and "combating" are synonyms.
 5 As used herein, the terms "undesirable vegetation" and "harmful plants" are synonyms.
   Where reference is made to imazethapyr, this includes the free base as well as agriculturally
   acceptable salts thereof.
 o Examples of agriculturally acceptable salts of imazethapyr include alkaline or earth alkaline
   metals or ammonium or organoammonium salts, for instance,
   sodium, potassium, ammonium and isopropyl ammonium. Particularly preferred is imazethapyr
   ammonium salt. Reference to a salt includes the anhydrous form as well as hydrated forms
   thereof.
 5
   Where reference is made to imazamox, this includes the free base as well as agriculturally
   acceptable salts thereof.
   Examples of agriculturally acceptable salts of imazamox include alkaline or earth alkaline metals
30 or ammonium or organoammonium salts, for instance, sodium, potassium, ammonium and
   isopropyl ammonium. Particularly preferred is imazamox ammonium salt. Reference to a salt
   includes the anhydrous form as well as hydrated forms thereof.
   Where reference is made to fomesafen, this includes the free base as well as agriculturally
35 acceptable salts thereof.
   Examples of agriculturally acceptable salts of fomesafen include alkaline or earth alkaline
   metals or ammonium or organoammonium salts, for instance, sodium, potassium, ammonium
   and isopropyl ammonium. Particularly preferred is fomesafen sodium salt. Reference to a salt
40 includes the anhydrous form as well as hydrated forms thereof.
   Where reference is made to sulfentranzone, this includes the free base as well as agriculturally

                                                   6
   acceptable salts thereof.
   Examples of agriculturally acceptable salts of sulfentranzone include alkaline or earth alkaline
   metals or ammonium or organoammonium salts, for instance, sodium, potassium, ammonium
 5 and isopropyl ammonium. Reference to a salt includes the anhydrous form as well as hydrated
   forms thereof.
   Where reference is made to bentazone, this includes the free base as well as agriculturally
   acceptable salts thereof.
 0
   Examples of agriculturally acceptable salts of bentazone include alkaline or earth alkaline
   metals or ammonium or organoammonium salts, for instance, lithium, sodium, potassium,
   magnesium, calcium, ammonium, methylammonium, dimethylammonium,
   methyltrioctylammonium and isopropyl ammonium as well as the diethanolamine and choline
 5 salts. Particularly preferred is bentazone sodium salt. Reference to a salt includes the
   anhydrous form as well as hydrated forms thereof.
   The compositions of the invention comprise the imazethapyr + imazamox combination as a first
   component a).
 0
   As a second component b), the compositions of the invention comprise at least one herbicide B
   which is selected from the at least one herbicide B from the group of fomesafen, sulfentrazone
   or bentazone. In one embodiment a herbicide B is present, in another embodiment two
   herbicides B are present.
 5
   The herbicide B is selected from the group of fomesafen, sulfentrazone or bentazone.
   Imazethapyr may be present in the form of its racemate or in the form of the pure R-or S
   enantiomers (including salts as defined above). Particularly preferred is the racemate and/or R
30 imazethapyr.
   Imazamox may be present in the form of its racemate or in the form of the pure R-or S
   enantiomer (including salts as defined above). Particularly suitable is R-imazamox. Particularly
   preferred is the racemate.
35
   In one embodiment the imazethapyr/imazamox combination is combined with fomesafen.
   In another embodiment the imazethapyr/imazamox combination is combined with sulfentrazone.
40 In a further embodiment the imazethapyr/imazamox combination is combined with bentazone.
   In the compositions of the present invention, imazethapyr and imazamox are present in a weight

                                                    7
   ratio preferably in the range from 100:1 to 1:100, in particular in the range from 5:1 to 1:5, more
   preferably from 2:1 to 1:2 and even more preferably 1:1.
   In the compositions of the present invention the relative weight ratio of herbicide A to herbicide
 5 B is preferably in the range from 20:1 to 1:100, in particular in the range from 10:1 to 1:40 and
   more preferably from 5:1 to 1:20. Accordingly, in the methods and uses of the invention,
   herbicide A and the at least one herbicide B are applied within these weight ratios.
   In the composition comprising herbicide A and fomesafen the relative weight ratio of herbicide A
 0 to fomesafen is preferably in the range of 10:1 to 1:100, more preferably 5:1 to 1:20 and most
   preferably 1:1 to 1:10.
   In the composition comprising herbicide A and sulfentrazone the relative weight ratio of
   herbicide A to sulfentrazone is preferably in the range of 20:1 to 1:20, more preferably 10:1 to
 5 1:10 and most preferably 5:1 to 1:5.
   In the composition comprising herbicide A and bentazone the relative weight ratio of herbicide A
   to bentazone is preferably in the range of 10:1 to 1:100, more preferably 3:1 to 1:30 or 1:1 to
   1:20 and most preferably 1:3 to 1:15.
 0
   The compositions of the invention may also comprise, as a component c), one or more
   safeners. Safeners, also termed as herbicide safeners are organic compounds which in some
   cases lead to better crop plant compatibility when applied jointly with specifically acting
   herbicides. Some safeners are themselves herbicidally active. In these cases, the safeners act
 5 as antidote or antagonist in the crop plants and thus reduce or even prevent damage to the crop
   plants. However, in the compositions of the present invention, safeners are generally not
   required. Therefore, a preferred embodiment of the invention relates to compositions which
   contain no safener or virtually no safener (i.e. less than 1 % by weight, based on the total
   amount of herbicide A and herbicide B).
30
   Suitable safeners, which can be used in the compositions according to the present invention are
   known in the art, e.g. from The Compendium of Pesticide Common Names
   (http://www.alanwood.net/pesticides/); Farm Chemicals Handbook 2000 Vol. 86, Meister
   Publishing Company, 2000; B. Hock, C. Fedtke, R. R. Schmidt, Herbizide, Georg Thieme
35 Verlag, Stuttgart 1995; W. H. Ahrens, Herbicide Handbook, 7th Edition, Weed Science Society
   of America, 1994; and K. K. Hatzios, Herbicide Handbook, Supplement to 7th Edition, Weed
   Science Society of America, 1998.
   Safeners include benoxacor, cloquintocet, cyometrinil, cyprosulfamide, dichlormid, dicyclonon,
40 dietholate, fenchlorazole, fenclorim, flurazole, fluxofenim, furilazole, isoxadifen, mefenpyr,
   mephenate, naphthalic anhydride, 2,2,5-trimethyl-3-(dichloracetyl)-1,3-oxazolidine, 4
   (dichloroacetyl)-1-oxa-4-azaspiro[4.5]decane and oxabetrinil, as well as thereof agriculturally

                                                     8
   acceptable salts and, provided they have a carboxyl group, their agriculturally acceptable
   derivatives. 2,2,5-Trimethyl-3-(dichloroacetyl)-1,3-oxazolidine [CAS No. 52836-31-4] is also
   known under the name R-29148.4-(Dichloroacetyl)-1-oxa-4-azaspiro[4.5]decane [CAS No.
   71526-07-03] is also known under the names AD-67 and MON 4660.
 5
   As safener, the compositions according to the invention particularly preferably comprise at least
   one of the compounds selected from the group of benoxacor, cloquintocet, cyprosulfamide,
   dichlormid, fenchlorazole, fenclorim, fluxofenim, furilazole, isoxadifen, mefenpyr, naphthalic
   anhydride, 2,2,5-trimethyl-3-(dichloroacetyl)-1,3-oxazolidine, and 4-(dichloroacetyl)-1-oxa-4
 0 azaspiro[4.5]decane and oxabetrinil; and the agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and, in the
   case of compounds having a COOH group, an agriculturally acceptable derivative as defined
   below.
   A preferred embodiment of the invention relates to compositions which contain no safener or
 5 virtually no safener (i.e. less than 1 % by weight, based on the total amount of herbicide A and
   the at least one herbicide B) is applied.
   If the compounds of herbicidally active compounds mentioned as herbicides B and safeners
   (see below) have functional groups, which can be ionized, they can also be used in the form of
 0 their agriculturally acceptable salts. In general, the salts of those cations are suitable whose
   cations have no adverse effect on the action of the active compounds ("agriculturally
   acceptable").
   In general, the salts of those cations are suitable whose cations have no adverse effect on the
 5 action of the active compounds ("agriculturally acceptable"). Preferred cations are the ions of
   the alkali metals, preferably of lithium, sodium and potassium, of the alkaline earth metals,
   preferably of calcium and magnesium, and of the transition metals, preferably of manganese,
   copper, zinc and iron, furthermore ammonium and substituted ammonium (hereinafter also
   termed as organoammonium) in which one to four hydrogen atoms are replaced by C1-C4-alkyl,
30 hydroxy-C1-C4-alkyl, Cl-C4-alkoxy-C1-C4-alkyl, hydroxy-C1-C4-alkoxy-C1-C4-alkyl, phenyl or
   benzyl, preferably ammonium, methylammonium, isopropylammonium, dimethylammonium,
   diisopropylammonium, trimethylammonium, tetramethylammonium, tetraethylammonium,
   tetrabutylammonium, 2-hydroxyethylammonium, 2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)eth-1-ylammonium, di(2
   hydroxyeth-1-yl)ammonium, benzyltrimethylammonium, benzyltriethylammonium, furthermore
35 phosphonium ions, sulfonium ions, preferably tri(C1-C4-alkyl)sulfonium such as
   trimethylsulfonium, and sulfoxonium ions, preferably tri(C1 -C4-alkyl)sulfoxonium.
   In the compositions according to the invention, the compounds that carry a carboxyl group can
   also be employed in the form of agriculturally acceptable derivatives, for example as amides
40 such as mono- or di-C1-C6-alkylamides or arylamides, as esters, for example as allyl esters,
   propargyl esters, Cl-C10-alkyl esters or alkoxyalkyl esters, and also as thioesters, for example
   as C1-C10-alkyl thioesters. Preferred mono- and di-C1-C6-alkylamides are the methyl- and the

                                                       9
   dimethylamides. Preferred arylamides are, for example, the anilidines and the 2-chloroanilides.
   Preferred alkyl esters are, for example, the methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl,
   pentyl, mexyl (1-methylhexyl) or isooctyl (2-ethylhexyl) esters. Preferred C1-C4-alkoxy-C1-C4
   alkyl esters are the straight-chain or branched C1-C4-alkoxyethyl esters, for example the
 5 methoxyethyl, ethoxyethyl or butoxyethyl esters. An example of the straight-chain or branched
   Cl-C10-alkyl thioesters is the ethyl thioester. Preferred derivatives are the esters.
   The compositions of the present invention are suitable for controlling a large number of harmful
   plants, including monocotyledonous weeds, in particular annual weeds such as gramineous
 0 weeds (grasses) including Echinoch/oa species such as barnyardgrass (Echinoch/oa crusgali
    var. crus-gall) or Echinochloa colonum, Leptochloa species such as Leptochloa fusca, Digitaria
   species such as crabgrass (Digitaria sanguina/is), Setaria species such as green foxtail (Setaria
    viridis) and giant foxtail (Setaria faberit), Sorghum species such as johnsongrass (Sorghum
   halepense Pers.), Avena species such as wild oats (A vena fatua), Cenchrus species such as
 5 Cenchrus echinatus, Bromus species, Lolium species, Phalaris species such as Phalaris
   canariensis, Erioch/oa species, Panicum species such as Panicum mil/iaceum, Brachiaria
   species such as Brachiaria decumbens, annual bluegrass (Poa annua), blackgrass (Alopecurus
   myosuroides), Aeglops cylindr/ca, Agropyron repens, Apera spica- venti Eleusine Indica,
   Cynodon dactylon, Rottboeia cochinchinensis, D/nebra arabca, Saccharum spontaneum, and
 0 the like.
   The compositions of the present invention are particularly suitable for controlling the
   monocotyledonous weeds selected from Echinoch/oa species such as barnyardgrass
   (Ech/nochloa crus-gall) or Ech/nochloa colonum, Leptochloa species such as Leptoch/oa
 5 fusca, Pha/aris species such as Pha/aris canariensis, Setaria species such as green foxtail
   (Setaria viridis), Digitaria species such as crabgrass (D/itaria sanguina/is), Panicum species
   such as Panicum miliaceum and Brachiaria species such as Brachiaria decumbens, Dinebra
   species such as Dinebra arabica
30 The compositions of the present invention are also suitable for controlling a large number of
   dicotyledonous weeds, in particular broad leaf weeds including Aca/ypha species such as
   Aca/ypha indica, Po/ygonum species such as wild buckwheat (Po/ygonum convo/volus) or
   Po/ygonum persicara, Amaranthus species such as pigweed (Amaranthus retroflexus) or
   (Amaranthus viridis), Chenopodium species such as common lambsquarters (Chenopodium
35 a/bum L.), Sida species such as prickly sida (Sida spinosa L.), Ambrosia species such as
   common ragweed (Ambrosia artemisifolia), Acanthospermum species, Anthemis species,
   Atriplex species, Cirsium species, Con volvulus species such as Con volvulus arvensis, Conyza
   species such as Conyza canadensis, Cassia species, Comme/ina species such as for example
   Commelina communes or CommelIna benghalensis, Datura species, Euphorbia species such as
40 for example Euphorbia hirta or Euphorbia geniculata, Geranium species such as Geranium
   dissectum, Ga/insoga species, morningglory (/pomoea species), Lamium species, Ma/va
   species, Matricaria species, Sysimbrium species, So/anum species, Xanthium species such as

                                                   10
   for example Xanthium strumiarium, Veronica species, Viola species, common chickweed
   (Stellaria media), Abutilon species such as velvetleaf (Abutilon theophrasti), Sespania species
   such as Hemp sesbania (Sesbania exaltata Cory), Anoda cristata, Bidens pilosa, Brassica
   ka ber, Capsella bursa-pastoris, Centaurea cyanus, Galeopsis tetrahit, Galium aparine,
 5 Helianthus annuus, Desmodium tortuosum, Kochia scoparia, Mercurials annua, Myosotis
   arvensis, Papa ver rhoeas, Raphanus raphanistrum, Salsola kali Sinapis arvensis, Sonchus
   arvensis, Thlaspi arvense, Tagetes minuta, Richardia brasiliensis, Rumex crispus, Rumex
   obtusifolius, Heracleaum sphondylium, Aethusa cynapium, Daucus carota, Equisetum arvense,
   Parthenium hysterophorus, Celosia argentea, Cynotis spec such as Cynotis axillaris,
 0 Parthenium spec such as Parthenium hysterophorus, Physals spec such as Physals minima,
   Digera spec such as Digera arvensis, and the like.
   In particular, the compositions of the present invention are suitable for controlling the
   dicotyledonous weeds selected from Acalypha species such as Acalypha indica, Commelina
 5 species such as Commelina benghalensis or Commelina communis, Ambrosia species such as
   common ragweed (Ambrosia artemisifolia), Geranium species such as Geranium dissectum,
   Abutilon species such as velvetleaf (Abutilon theophrast), Sespania species such as Hemp
   sesbania (Sesbania exaltata), Conyza species such as Conyza canadensis, Convo/vulus
   species such as Convolvulus arvensis, Polygonum species such as Polygonum persicaria,
 0 Parthenium spec such as Parthenium hysterophorus, Physalis spec such as Physals minima,
   Digera spec such as Digera arvensis, Cynotis spec such as Cynotis axillaris.
   The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and bentazone is suitable for
   controlling Acalypha species such as Acalypha indica, Commelina species such as Commelina
   benghalensis or Commelina communis, Ambrosia spec. such as Ambrosia artimisiifolia,
 5 Abutilon spec. such as Abutilon theophrasti Echinochloa spec. such as Echinochloa crus-galli
   or Echinochloa colonum, Setaria spec. such as Setaria fabe, Digitaria spec. such as Digitaria
   sanguinalis, Conyza s pec. such as Conyza canadensis, Phalaris s pec. such as Phalaris
   canariensis, Leptochloa spec, such as Leptochloa fusca, Geranium spec. such as Geranium
   dissectum and Sesbania species such as Sesbania exalta, Parthenium spec such as
30 Parthenium hysterophorus, Physalis spec such as Physalis minima, Digera spec such as Digera
   arvensis, Cynotis spec such as Cynotis axillaris, Dinebra spec. such as Dinebra arabica.
   The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and bentazone is particularly
   suitable for controlling Acalypha species such as Acalypha indica, Commelina species such as
   Commelina benghalensis or Commeina communis, Echinochloa spec. such as Echinochloa
35 crus-galli or Echinoch/oa colonum, Phalaris spec. such as Phalaris canariensis, Leptochloa
   s pec, such as L eptochloa fusca, Geranium s pec. such as Geranium dissectum and Sesbania
   s pec ies such as Sesbania exalta, Parthenium spec such as Parthenium hysterophorus,
   Physalis spec such as Physalis minima, Digera spec such as Digera arvensis, Cynotis spec
   such as Cynotis axillaris, Dinebra spec. such as Dinebra arabica.
40
   The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and fomesafen is particularly
   suitable for controlling Acalypha species such as Acalypha indica, Commelina species such as

                                                  11
   Commelina benghalensis or Commelina communis, Echinochloa spec. such as Echinochloa
   crus-gallior Echinochloa colonum, Phalaris spec. such as Phalaris canariensis, Leptochloa
   spec. such as Leptochloa fusca, Ambrosia spec. such as Ambrosia artemisiifolia, Geranium
   s pec. such as Geranium dissectum, Sesbania s pec. such as Sesbania exaltata, Conyza s pec.
 5 such as Conyza Canadensis, convolvulus spec. such as Convolvulus arvensis and Polygonum
   spec. such as Polygonum persicaria, Parthenium spec such as Parthenium hysterophorus,
   Physalis spec such as Physalis minima, Digera spec such as Digera arvensis, Cynotis spec
   such as Cynois axillaris, Dinebra spec. such as Dinebra arabica.
   The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and sulfentrazone is particularly
 0 suitable for controlling Acalypha species such as Acalypha indica, Commelina species such as
   Commelina benghalensis or Commelina communis, Echinochloa spec. such as Echinochloa
   crus-gallior Echinochloa colonum, Setaria spec. such as Setaria faberi, Panicum spec. such as
   Panicum miliaceum, Phalaris spec. such as Phalaris canariensis, Leptochloa spec. such as
   Leptochloafusca, Geranium spec. such as Geranium dissectum, Sesbania spec. such as
 5 Sesbania exalt ata, Brachiaria spec. such as Brachiaria decumbens, Polygonum spec. such as
   Polygonum persicaria, Parthenium spec such as Parthenium hysterophorus, Physalis spec such
   as Physalis minima, Digera spec such as Digera arvensis, Cynotis spec such as Cynotis
   axillaris, Dinebra spec. such as Dinebra arabca.
 o The compositions of the invention are suitable for controlling weeds selected from Acalypha
   spec., Commelina spec., Echinochloa spec., Phalaris spec, Leptochloa spec, Echinochloa
   spec., Setaria spec., Digitaria spec., Panicum spec., Brachiaria spec. Ambrosia spec.,
   Geranium spec.Abulon spec., Sesbania spec., Conyza spec., Convolvulus spec. and
   Polygonum spec, Parthenium spec., Physalis spec., Digera spec., Dinebra spec, Cyno/is spec
 5
   The compositions of the invention are particular suitable for controlling weeds selected from
   Acalypha spec., Commelina spec., Echinochloa spec., Phalaris spec, Leptochloa spec,
   Panicum spec., Brachiaria spec. Ambrosia spec., Geranium spec. Sesbania spec., Conyza
   spec., Convolvulus spec. and Polygonum spec. Parthenium spec., Physalis spec., Digera spec.,
30 Dinebra spec, Cynotis spec
   The compositions of the present invention are in particular useful against annual and perennial
   grasses and broad-leaved weeds in post-emergence application.
   The compositions of the present invention are also suitable for controlling a large number of
35 annual and perennial sedge weeds including cyperus species such as purple nutsedge
   (Cyperus rotundus L.), yellow nutsedge (Cyperus esculentus L.), hime-kugu (Cyperus
   brevifo/ius H.), sedge weed (Cyperus microiria Steud), rice flatsedge (Cyperus iria L.), and the
   like.
40 The compositions according to the present invention are suitable for combat-ing/controlling
   common harmful plants in useful plants (i.e. in crops). The compositions of the present invention
   are generally suitable for combating/controlling undesired vegetation in

                                                    12
   -        Legumes (Fabaceae), including e.g. soybeans (Glycine max.), peanuts (Arachis
   hypogaea) and pulse crops such as peas including P/sum sativum, pigeon pea and cowpea,
   beans including broad beans ( Vicia faba), Vigna spp., and Phaseo/us spp. and lentils (lens
   cu/inar/s var.).
 5 -        crops which are tolerant to the action of acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibiting herbicides,
            such as for example Clearfield@ wheat, Clearfield@ barley, Clearfield@ corn, Clearfield@
            lentil, Clearfield@ oilseed rape or canola, Clearfield@ rice, Cultivance@ soybean and/or
            Clearfield@ sunflower.
 o The compositions of the present invention are in particular suitable for combat-ing/controlling
   undesired vegetation in soybean, peanut, pea, bean, lentil, green gram, black gram, cluster
   bean, fenugreek, other pulse or leguminous crops, or crops which are tolerant to the action of
   acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibiting herbicides, such as for example Clearfield@ wheat,
   Clearfield@ barley, Clearfield@ corn, Clearfield@ lentil, Clearfield@ oilseed rape or canola,
 5 Clearfield@ rice, Cultivance@ soybean and/or Clearfield@ sunflower.
   The compositions of the present invention are most suitable for combating/controlling undesired
   vegetation in soybean, peanut, pea, bean, lentil, green gram, black gram, cluster bean,
   fenugreek, other pulse or leguminous crops, preferably soybean (Glycine max.).
 0
   If not stated otherwise, the compositions of the invention are suitable for application in any
   variety of the aforementioned crop plants.
   The compositions according to the invention can also be used in crop plants which are tolerant
 5 to one or more herbicides owing to genetic engineering or breeding, which are resistant to one
   or more pathogens such as plant pathogenous fungi to genetic engineering or breeding, or
   which are resistant to attack by insects owing to genetic engineering or breeding. Suitable are
   for example pulse or leguminous crop plants, preferably soybean, peanut, pea, bean, green
   gram, black gram, cluster bean, fenugreek, or lentil which are tolerant to herbicidal AHAS
30 inhibitors, such as, for example imazethapyr, or pulse or leguminous crop plants, preferably
   soybean, peanut, pea, bean, green gram, black gram, cluster bean, fenugreek, or lentil which,
   owing to introduction of the gene for Bt toxin by genetic modification, are resistant to attack by
   certain insects. Most suitable are soybeans which are tolerant to herbicidal AHAS inhibitors,
   such as, for example imazethapyr or soybean plants which, owing to introduction of the gene for
35 Bt toxin by genetic modification, are resistant to attack by certain insects.
   The compositions of the present invention can be applied in conventional manner by using
   techniques as skilled person is familiar with. Suitable techniques include spraying, atomizing,
   dusting, spreading or watering. The type of application depends on the intended purpose in a
40 well known manner; in any case, they should ensure the finest possible distribution of the active
   ingredients according to the invention.

                                                   13
   The compositions can be applied pre- or post-emergence, i.e. before, during and/or after
   emergence of the undesirable plants. Preferably, the compositions are applied post-emergence,
   in particular after the emergence of both the crop and the undesirable plants. When the
   compositions are used in crops, they can be applied after seeding and before or after the
 5 emergence of the crop plants. The compositions invention can, however, also be applied prior
   to seeding of the crop plants.
   In any case the components of herbicide A and the at least one herbicide B can be applied
   simultaneously or in succession.
 0
   The compositions are applied to the plants mainly by spraying, in particular foliar spraying.
   Application can be carried out by customary spraying techniques using, for example, water as
   carrier and spray liquor rates of from about 10 to 2000 I/ha or 50 to 1000 I/ha (for example from
   100 to 500 I/ha). Application of the herbicidal compositions by the low-volume and the ultra-low
 5 volume method is possible, as is their application in the form of microgranules.
   In the case of a post-emergence treatment of the plants, the herbicidal mixtures or compositions
   according to the invention are preferably applied by foliar application. Application may be
   effected, for example, by usual spraying techniques with water as the carrier, using amounts of
 0 spray mixture of approx. 20 to 1000 I/ha.
   The required application rate of the composition of the pure active compounds, i.e. of herbicide
   A, herbicide B and optionally safener depends on the density of the undesired vegetation, on
   the development stage of the plants, on the climatic conditions of the location where the
 5 composition is used and on the application method. In general, the application rate of the
   composition (total amount of herbicide A, herbicide B and optional further actives) is from 1 to
   5,000 g/ha, preferably from 5 to 1,500 g/ha of active substance.
   The required application rates of imazethapyr are generally in the range from 1 g/ha to 200 g/ha
30 and preferably in the range from 5 g/ha to 150 g/ha or from 10 g/ha to 100 g/ha of active
   substance.
   The required application rates of imazamox are generally in the range from 1 g/ha to 200 g/ha
   and preferably in the range from 5 g/ha to 150 g/ha or from 10 g/ha to 100 g/ha of active
35 substance.
   The required application rates of the herbicide B (total amount of herbicide B) are generally in
   the range from 1 g/ha to 5,000 g/ha and preferably in the range from 5 g/ha to 3,000 g/ha or
   from 10 g/ha to 1,500 g/ha of active substance.
40
   The required application rates of the safener, if applied, are generally in the range from 1 g/ha
   to 2,000 g/ha and preferably in the range from 2 g/ha to 2,000 g/ha or from 5 g/ha to 2,000 g/ha

                                                    14
   of active substance.
   The compositions of these embodiments are particularly suitable for controlling mono- and
   dicotyledonous weeds and sedge weeds, in particular Acalypha spec., Physalis spec., Digera
 5 spec., Aegilops Cylindrica,Agropyron repens, Alopecurus myosuroides, A vena fatua, Brassica
   spec., Brachiaria spec., Bromus spec., Echinoch/oa spec. such as for example Echinoch/oa
   colonum, Lolium s pec., Phiaaris spec., red rice, Setaria s pec., Sorghum s pec., Abuthilon
   theoprasti, Amarantus spec., Brassica kaber, Capsella bursa-pastoris, Chenopodium spec.,
   Cyperus spec., Euphorbia spec. such as for example Euphorbia irta or Euphorbia geniculata,
 o Geranium sepc., /pomoea spec., Polygonum spec., Raphanus raphianistrum, Sinapis arevensis,
   Sysimbrium s pec., Tbaspi arvense, Rottboellia cochinchinensis, Dinebra spec., Digitaria
   sanguinalis, Eleus/ne Indica, Saccharum spontaneum, Cynodon dactylon, Commelina
   benghialensis, Commelina communis, Parthenium spec., Celos/a argentea, Cynotis spp and
   Xanthium strumarium.
 5
   The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and bentazone is suitable for
   controlling Ambrosia spec. such as Ambrosia artimisifolia, Abutilon spec. such as Abutilon
   theophrasti Echinochl/oa spec. such as Echinochloa crus-galli Setaria spec. such as Setaria
   faberi Digitaria spec. such as Digitaria sanguinalis, Conyza spec. such as Conyza canadensis,
 o Phialaris spec. such as Phialaris canariensis, Leptocloa spec, such as Leptochloa fusca,
   Geranium spec. such as Geranium dissectum and Sesbania species such as Sesbania exalta.
   The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and bentazone is particularly
   suitable for controlling Pha/aris spec. such as Phia/aris canariensis, Leptoch/oa spec, such as
 5 Leptochloa fusca, Geranium spec. such as Geranium dissectum and Sesbania species such as
   Sesbania exalta.
   The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and fomesafen is particularly
   suitable for controlling Phia/aris spec. such as Pha/aris canariensis, Leptoch/oa spec. such as
30 Leptochloa fusca, Ambrosia spec. such as Ambrosia artemisiifolia, Geranium spec. such as
   Geranium dissectum, Sesbania spec. such as Sesbania exaltata, Conyza spec. such as Conyza
   Canadensis, con volvulus s pec.such as Con volvulus arvensis and Polygonum s pec. such as
   Polygonum persicaria.
35 The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and sulfentrazone is particularly
   suitable for controlling Setaria spec. such as Setaria faberi, Panicum spec. such as Panicum
   miliaceum, Pialar/s spec. such as Pialar/s canariensis, Leptochloa spec. such as Leptochl/oa
   fusca, Geranium spec. such as Geranium dissectum, Sesbania spec. such as Sesbana
   exaltata, Bracharia spec. such as Brac/iaria decumbens, Po/ygonum spec. such as Po/ygonum
40 persicaria.
   The herbicidal composition comprising imazethapyr, imazamox and sulfentrazone is particularly

                                                   15
   suitable for controlling Pha/aris spec. such as Phalaris canariensis, Leptoch/oa spec. such as
   Leptochloa fusca, Geranium spec. such as Geranium dissectum, Sesbania spec. such as
   Sesbania exaltata, Polygonum spec. such as Polygonum persicaria, Brachiaria spec. such as
   Brachiaria decumbens, Panicum spec. such as Panicum miliaceum,.
 5
   The compositions of the invention are suitable for controlling weeds selected from Phalaris
   spec, Leptoch/oa spec, Echinoch/oa spec., Setaria spec., Digitaria spec., Panicum spec.,
   Brachiaria spec. Ambrosia spec., Geranium spec. Abutilon spec., Sesbania spec., Conyza
   spec., Convolvulus spec. and Polygonum spec..
 0
   The compositions of the invention are particular suitable for controlling weeds selected from
   Phalaris spec, Leptochloa spec, Panicum spec., Brachiaria spec. Ambrosia spec., Geranium
   spec. Sesbania spec., Conyza spec., Convolvults spec. and Polygonum spec.
 5 The compositions of these embodiments are in particular suitable for combating undesired
   vegetation in soybean, peanut, pea, bean, lentil, green gram, black gram, cluster bean,
   fenugreek, other pulse or leguminous crops, or crops which are tolerant to the action of
   acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibiting herbicides, such as for example Clearfield@ wheat,
   Clearfield@ barley, Clearfield@ corn, Clearfield@ lentil, Clearfield@ oilseed rape or canola,
 o Clearfield@ rice, Cultivance@ soybean and/or Clearfield@ sunflower. The compositions of these
   embodiments are most suitable for combating undesired vegetation in soybean, peanut, pea,
   bean, lentil, green gram, black gram, cluster bean, fenugreek, other pulse or leguminous crops,
   preferably soybean.
 5 If not stated otherwise, the compositions of this embodiment are suitable for application in any
   variety of the aforementioned crop plants.
   In particular, the compositions of these embodiments are suitable for application in soybean,
   peanut, pea, bean, lentil, green gram, black gram, cluster bean, fenugreek, other pulse or
30 leguminous crops, preferably soybean.
   The present invention also relates to formulations of the compositions according to the present
   invention. The formulations contain, besides the composition, at least one organic or inorganic
   carrier material. The formulations may also contain, if desired, one or more surfactants and, if
35 desired, one or more further auxiliaries customary for crop protection compositions.
   The formulation may be in the form of a single package formulation containing both the
   herbicide A and the at least one herbicide B together with liquid and/or solid carrier materials,
   and, if desired, one or more surfactants and, if desired, one or more further auxiliaries
40 customary for crop protection compositions. The formulation may be in the form of a two
   package formulation, wherein one package contains a formulation of the herbicide A while the
   other package contains a formulation of the at least one herbicide B and wherein both

                                                     16
   formulations contain at least one carrier material, if desired, one or more surfactants and, if
   desired, one or more further auxiliaries customary for crop protection compositions. In the case
   of two package formulations the formulation containing the herbicide A and the formulation
   containing the herbicide B are mixed prior to application. In case the herbicide A itself is a two
 5 package formulation the composition is in the form of a three-pack formulation. Preferably the
   mixing is performed as a tank mix, i.e. the formulations are mixed immediately prior or upon
   dilution with water.
   In the formulation of the present invention the active ingredients, i.e. imazethapyr, imazamox,
 o herbicide B and optional further actives are present in suspended, emulsified or dissolved form.
   The formulation according to the invention can be in the form of aqueous solutions, powders,
   suspensions, also highly-concentrated aqueous, oily or other suspensions or dispersions,
   aqueous emulsions, aqueous microemulsions, aqueous suspoemulsions, oil dispersions,
   pastes, dusts, materials for spreading or granules.
 5
   Depending on the formulation type, they comprise one or more liquid or solid carriers, if
   appropriate surfactants (such as dispersants, protective colloids, emulsifiers, wetting agents and
   tackifiers), and if appropriate further auxiliaries which are customary for formulating crop
   protection products. The person skilled in the art is sufficiently familiar with the recipes for such
 0 formulations. Further auxiliaries include e.g. organic and inorganic thickeners, bactericides,
   antifreeze agents, antifoams, colorants and, for seed formulations, adhesives.
   Suitable carriers include liquid and solid carriers. Liquid carriers include e.g. non-aqueous
   solvents such as cyclic and aromatic hydrocarbons, e.g. paraffins, tetrahydro-naphthalene,
 5 alkylated naphthalenes and their derivatives, alkylated benzenes and their derivatives, alcohols
   such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, butanol and cyclohexanol, ketones such as
   cyclohexanone, strongly polar solvents, e.g. amines such as N-methylpyrrolidone, and water as
   well as mixtures thereof. Solid carriers include e.g. mineral earths such as silicas, silica gels,
   silicates, talc, kaolin, limestone, lime, chalk, bole, less, clay, dolomite, diatomaceous earth,
30 calcium sulfate, magnesium sulfate, magnesium oxide, ground synthetic materials, fertilizers
   such as ammonium sulfate, ammonium phosphate, ammonium nitrate, ureas, and products of
   vegetable origin such as cereal meal, tree bark meal, wood meal and nutshell meal, cellulose
   powders, or other solid carriers.
35 Suitable surfactants (adjuvants, wetting agents, tackifiers, dispersants and also emulsifiers) are
   the alkali metal salts, alkaline earth metal salts and ammonium salts of aromatic sulfonic acids,
   for example lignosulfonic acids (e.g. BorrespersTM-types, Borregaard), phenolsulfonic acids,
   naphthalenesulfonic acids (Morwet types, Akzo Nobel) and dibutylnaphthalenesulfonic acid
   (Nekal@ types, BASF SE), and of fatty acids, alkyl- and alkylarylsulfonates, alkyl sulfates, lauryl
40 ether sulfates and fatty alcohol sulfates, and salts of sulfated hexa-, hepta- and octadecanols,
   and also of fatty alcohol glycol ethers, condensates of sulfonated naphthalene and its
   derivatives with formaldehyde, condensates of naphthalene or of the naphthalenesulfonic acids

                                                     17
   with phenol and formaldehyde, polyoxyethylene octylphenol ether, ethoxylated isooctyl-, octyl
   or nonylphenol, alkylphenyl or tributylphenyl polyglycol ether, alkylaryl polyether alcohols,
   isotridecyl alcohol, fatty alcohol/ethylene oxide condensates, ethoxylated castor oil,
   polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers or polyoxypropylene alkyl ethers, lauryl alcohol polyglycol ether
 5 acetate, sorbitol esters, lignosulfite waste liquors and proteins, denaturated proteins,
   polysaccharides (e.g. methylcellulose), hydrophobically modified starches, polyvinyl alcohol
   (Mowiol@ types Clariant), polycarboxylates (BASF SE, Sokalan@ types), polyalkoxylates,
   polyvinylamine (BASF SE, Lupamine@ types), polyethyleneimine (BASF SE, Lupasol@ types),
   polyvinylpyrrolidone and copolymers thereof.
 0
   Examples of thickeners (i.e. compounds which impart to the formulation modified flow
   properties, i.e. high viscosity in the state of rest and low viscosity in motion) are
   polysaccharides, such as xanthan gum (Kelzan@ from Kelco), Rhodopol@ 23 (Rhone Poulenc)
   or Veegum@ (from R.T. Vanderbilt), and also organic and inorganic sheet minerals, such as
 5 Attaclay@ (from Engelhardt).
   Examples of antifoams are silicone emulsions (such as, for example, Silikon@-         SRE, Wacker
   or Rhodorsil@ from Rhodia), long-chain alcohols, fatty acids, salts of fatty acids, organofluorine
   compounds and mixtures thereof.
 0
   Bactericides can be added for stabilizing the aqueous herbicidal formulations. Examples of
   bactericides are bactericides based on diclorophen and benzyl alcohol hemiformal (Proxel@
   from ICI or Acticide@ RS from Thor Chemie and Kathon@ MK from Rohm & Haas), and also
   isothiazolinone derivates, such as alkylisothiazolinones and benzisothiazolinones (Acticide@
 5 MBS from Thor Chemie).
   Examples of antifreeze agents are ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, urea or glycerol.
   Examples of colorants are both sparingly water-soluble pigments and water-soluble dyes.
30 Examples which may be mentioned are the dyes known under the names Rhodamin B, C.I.
   Pigment Red 112 and C.I. Solvent Red 1, and also pigment blue 15:4, pigment blue 15:3,
   pigment blue 15:2, pigment blue 15:1, pigment blue 80, pigment yellow 1, pigment yellow 13,
   pigment red 112, pigment red 48:2, pigment red 48:1, pigment red 57:1, pigment red 53:1,
   pigment orange 43, pigment orange 34, pigment orange 5, pigment green 36, pigment green 7,
35 pigment white 6, pigment brown 25, basic violet 10, basic violet 49, acid red 51, acid red 52,
   acid red 14, acid blue 9, acid yellow 23, basic red 10, basic red 108.
   Examples of adhesives are polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl acetate, polyvinyl alcohol and tylose.
40 To prepare emulsions, pastes or oil dispersions, the active the components, as such or
   dissolved in an oil or solvent, can be homogenized in water by means of wetting agent, tackifier,
   dispersant or emulsifier. Alternatively, it is possible to prepare concentrates consisting of active

                                                   18
   substance, wetting agent, tackifier, dispersant or emulsifier and, if desired, solvent or oil, and
   these concentrates are suitable for dilution with water.
   Powders, materials for spreading and dusts can be prepared by mixing or concomitant grinding
 5 of the active the components a) and b) and optionally safener c) with a solid carrier.
   Granules, e.g. coated granules, impregnated granules and homogeneous granules, can be
   prepared by binding the active ingredients to solid carriers.
 0 The formulations of the invention comprise a herbicidally effective amount of the composition of
   the present invention. The concentrations of the active the active ingredients in the formulations
   can be varied within wide ranges. In general, the formulations comprise from 1 to 98% by
   weight, preferably 10 to 60 % by weight, of active ingredients (sum of imazethapyr, imazamox,
   herbicide B and optionally further acitves). The active ingredients are employed in a purity of
 5 from 90% to 100%, preferably 95% to 100% (according to NMR spectrum).
   The active compounds A and B as well as the compositions according to the invention can, for
   example, be formulated as follows:
 0 1. Products for dilution with water
   A       Water-soluble concentrates
   10 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are dissolved in 90 parts by weight of
   water or a water-soluble solvent. As an alternative, wetters or other adjuvants are added. The
 5 active compound dissolves upon dilution with water. This gives a formulation with an active
   compound content of 10% by weight.
   B       Dispersible concentrates
   20 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are dissolved in 70 parts by weight of
30 cyclohexanone with addition of 10 parts by weight of a dispersant, for example
   polyvinylpyrrolidone. Dilution with water gives a dispersion. The active compound content is
   20% by weight.
   C       Emulsifiable concentrates
35 15 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are dissolved in 75 parts by weight of
   an organic solvent (eg. alkylaromatics) with addition of calcium dodecyl-benzenesulfonate and
   castor oil ethoxylate (in each case 5 parts by weight). Dilution with water gives an emulsion. The
   formulation has an active compound content of 15% by weight.
40 D       Emulsions
   25 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are dissolved in 35 parts by weight of
   an organic solvent (eg. alkylaromatics) with addition of calcium dodecyl-benzenesulfonate and

                                                    19
   castor oil ethoxylate (in each case 5 parts by weight). This mixture is introduced into 30 parts by
   weight of water by means of an emulsifier (Ultraturrax) and made into a homogeneous
   emulsion. Dilution with water gives an emulsion. The formulation has an active compound
   content of 25% by weight.
 5
   E       Suspensions
   In an agitated ball mill, 20 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are comminuted
   with addition of 10 parts by weight of dispersants and wetters and 70 parts by weight of water or
   an organic solvent to give a fine active compound suspension. Dilution with water gives a stable
 0 suspension of the active compound. The active compound content in the formulation is 20% by
   weight.
   F       Water-dispersible granules and water-soluble granules
   50 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are ground finely with addition of 50
 5 parts by weight of dispersants and wetters and made into water-dispersible or water-soluble
   granules by means of technical appliances (for example extrusion, spray tower, fluidized bed).
   Dilution with water gives a stable dispersion or solution of the active compound. The formulation
   has an active compound content of 50% by weight.
 0 G       Water-dispersible powders and water-soluble powders
   75 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are ground in a rotor-stator mill with
   addition of 25 parts by weight of dispersants, wetters and silica gel. Dilution with water gives a
   stable dispersion or solution of the active compound. The active compound content of the
   formulation is 75% by weight.
 5
   H       Gel formulations
   In a ball mill, 20 parts by weight of active compound (or composition), 10 parts by weight of
   dispersant, 1 part by weight of gelling agent and 70 parts by weight of water or of an organic
   solvent are mixed to give a fine suspension. Dilution with water gives a stable suspension with
30 active compound content of 20% by weight.
   2.      Products to be applied undiluted
   I       Dusts
35 5 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are ground finely and mixed intimately
   with 95 parts by weight of finely divided kaolin. This gives a dusting powder with an active
   compound content of 5% by weight.
   J       Granules (GR, FG, GG, MG)
40 0.5 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are ground finely and associated with
   99.5 parts by weight of carriers. Current methods here are extrusion, spray-drying or the
   fluidized bed. This gives granules to be applied undiluted with an active compound content of

                                                      20
   0.5% by weight.
   K       ULV solutions (UL)
   10 parts by weight of active compound (or composition) are dissolved in 90 parts by weight of
 5 an organic solvent, for example xylene. This gives a product to be applied undiluted with an
   active compound content of 10% by weight.
   Aqueous use forms can be prepared from emulsion concentrates, suspensions, pastes,
   wettable powders or water-dispersible granules by adding water.
 0
   It may furthermore be beneficial to apply the compositions of the invention alone or in
   combination with other herbicides, or else in the form of a mixture with other crop protection
   agents, for example together with agents for controlling pests or phytopathogenic fungi or
   bacteria. Also of interest is the miscibility with mineral salt solutions, which are employed for
 5 treating nutritional and trace element deficiencies. Other additives such as non-phytotoxic oils
   and oil concentrates may also be added.
   Synergism can be described as an interaction where the combined effect of two or more
   compounds is greater than the sum of the individual effects of each of the compounds. The
 0 presence of a synergistic effect in terms of percent control, between two mixing partners (X and
   Y) can be calculated using the Colby equation (Colby, S. R., 1967, Calculating Synergistic and
   Antagonistic Responses in Herbicide Combinations, Weeds, 15, 21-22):
   E =X +Y
                   100
 5  When the observed combined control effect is greater than the expected (calculated) combined
   control effect (E), then the combined effect is synergistic. The synergictic effect may also be
   present when the observed combined control effect is equal to the expected (calculates)
   combined control effect, especially when control values over 90 are calculated.
30 The following tests demonstrate the control efficacy of compounds, mixtures or compositions of
   this invention on specific weeds. However, the weed control afforded by the compounds,
   mixtures or compositions is not limited to these species.The analysis of synergism or
   antagonism between the mixtures or compositions was determined using Colby's equation.
   Analogously, the Colby's equation can be used to determine synergism of 3-way and higher
35 mixtures:
                                                  XYZ      (XY) + (XZ) + (YZ
                           E =X + Y-+ Z +           -                             ]
                                                 10000               100
    Examples
10 Products:

                                                              21
  Imazethapyr - 70 % WG
  Imazamox - 70 % WG
  (Imazethapyr 35 + Imazamox 35 ) - 70 % WG
  Bentazon            -480 g /lit SC
5 Fomesafen           - 240 g/lit SC
  Sulfentrazone                   - 480 g/lit SC
  Weeds in the study
   EPPO Code           Scientific Name
   PHACA               Phalaris canariensis
   LEFFA               Leptochloa fusca
   AMBEL               Ambrosia artemisiifolia
   GERDI               Geranium dissectum
   ABUTH               Abutilon theophrasti
   ECHCG               Echinochloa crus-galli
   SETFA               Setaria faberi
   DIGSA               Digitaria sanguinalis
   SEBEX               Sesbania exaltata
   ERICA               Conyza canadensis
   CONAR               Convolvulus arvensis
   POLPE               Polygonum persicaria
   PANMI               Panicum miliaceum
   BRADC               Brachiaria decumbens
0 Example 1: Post emergence treatment by the mixture of (Imazamox+1mazethapyr) + Bentazon
                                                                    Herbicidal activity against
        Application rate in g ai/ha
                                               PHACA         LEFFA          AMBEL             GERDI      ABUTH
   Imazethapyr   Imazarnox     Bentazon  Found    Calcu Found   Calcu    Foun Calcu Found Calculated Found Calcu
                                                   lated         lated     d     lated                       lated
       15            --             --      30       --   45       --      98      --      65     --   50
       --            15             --      65       --   85       --      98      --      80     --   95
       --            --             25       0       --   0        --      0       --       0     --    0
           (15+15)                  25      85       76   98       92     100     100      98     93   98      98

                                                                       22
                                                                               Herbicidal activity against
          Application rate in g ai/ha
                                                 ECHCG                 SETFA             DIGSA            SEBEX              ERICA
                                                          Calcu              Calcu             Calcu             Calcu             Calcu
   Imazethapyr    imazamox        Bentazon    Found        late     Found late Found late Found lated Found                        late
       15              --               --      80           --      90        --      80        --       0       --      55
       --             15                --      98           --      98        --      98        --      45       --      60
       --              --               50      35           --       10       --      40        --      40        --     40
           (15+15)                      50      100         100      100      100      100      100      75       67      100        89
  Example 2: Post emergence treatment by the mixture of (Imazamox+1mazethapyr) +
  Fomesafen
5
                                                                          Herbicidal activity against
        Application rate in g ai/ha
                                            PHACA                LEFFA              GERDI             CONAR             POLPE
                                                  Calcu                Calcu              Calcu             Calcu             Calcu
   Imazethapyr Imazamox Fornesafen Found late Found                     late Found acted            Found   late      Found   late
       15            --             --      30       --         45        --       65       --        65       --       0       -
       --            15             --     65        --         85        --       80       --       75        --      95
       --            --             6       0        --          0        --        0       --        0        --      20        -
           (15+15)                  6       90      76          98       92        100      93       95       91       98       96
                                                                   Herbicidal activity against
         Application rate in g ai/ha
                                              SEBEX                ERICA              GERDI            AMBEL
                                                    Calcu              Calcu              Calcu             Calcu
   Imazethapyr Imazamox       Fomesafen    Found lated Found lated                Found    late Found        late
       15            --              --       0         --       55       --       65       --        65       -
       --            15              --      45         -        60       --       95       --        70       -
       --            --             10       80         --       30       --        70      --        65       -
           (15+15)                  10       100      89        100      87        100      99       100       96

                                                           23
   Example 3: Post emergence treatment by the mixture of (Imazamox+1mazethapyr) +
   Sulfentrazone
                                                                    Herbicidal activity against
            Application rate in g ai/ha
                                            PHACA           SETFA               PANMI            LEFFA       GERDI
                                               Galcu             Calcu              Calcu           Calcu       Calcu
    imazethapyr Imazamox Sulfentrazone Found           Found               Found            Found         Found
        15             --              -- 30     --      95          --     70         --     45       --  65     -
        --             15              -- 65     --      98          --     98         --     85       --  80     -
         --            --              6   0     --       0          --       0        --      0       --   0     -
             (15+15)                   6  85    76       100       100      100       99      98      92   95    93
 5
                                                 Herbicidal activity against
            Application rate in g ai/ha
                                            BRADC          SEBEX            POLPE
                                               Calcu            Calcu             Calcu
    Imazethapyr Imazamox Sulfentrazone Found          Found             Found
         15             --             -- 10     --      0        --       75       -
         --             15             -- 35     --     45        --       95       -
         --             --             10 30     --     80        --       80       -
             (15+15)                   10 70     59     100      89       100      100
   Further embodiments relate to:
   1.         Herbicidal compositions comprising:
   a) a herbicide A, which is the combination of imazethapyr, or agriculturally acceptable salts
 0 thereof and imazamox, or agriculturally acceptable salts thereof, and
   b) at least one herbicide B selected from the group consisting of fomesafen, or agriculturally
   acceptable salts thereof, sulfentrazone, or agriculturally acceptable salts thereof, and
   bentazone, or agriculturally acceptable salt thereof.
15 2.         Compositions according embodiment 1, additionally containing a safener.
   3.         Compositions according embodiment 1, containing no safener.
   4.         Compositions according to any of the preceding embodiments, wherein the relative
20 amount of imazethapyr to imazamox and herbicide B is in synergistically effective amounts.
   5.         Compositions according to any of the preceding embodiments, wherein the relative
   amount of the herbicide A to the at least one herbicide B is from 20:1 to 1:100, preferably from
   10:1 to 1:40 and more preferably from 5:1 to 1:20.

                                                    24
   6.      The use of the compositions according to any of the preceding embodiments for
   controlling undesirable vegetation.
 5 7.      The use according to embodiment 6 for controlling undesirable vegetation in crop plants.
   8.      The use according to embodiment 7, wherein the crop plants are leguminous crops.
   9.      The use according to embodiment 8, wherein the crop plants are leguminous crops
 0 selected from soybean, green gram, black gram, peas, cluster beans, pulse crops, peanut.
   10.     The use according to embodiment 9, wherein the crop plant is soybean.
   11.     The use according to embodiment 7, wherein the crop plants are tolerant to
 5 acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibiting herbicides.
   12.     The use according to embodiment 11, wherein the crop plants tolerant to
   acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibiting herbicides are wheat, barley, canola, corn, lentils, oilseed
   rape, rice, soybean or sunflower.
 0
   13.     A method for controlling undesirable vegetation, which comprises allowing a composition
   according to embodiments 1 to 5 to act on plants to be controlled or their habitat.
   14.     A method for controlling undesired vegetation as claimed in claim 13, which comprises
 5 applying the composition according to embodiments 1 to 5 before, during and/or after the
   emergence of the undesirable plants; the herbicide A and the at least one herbicide B being
   applied simultaneously or in succession.
   15.     An herbicide formulation comprising a composition according to any of the embodiments
30 1 to 5 and at least one solid or liquid carrier.

                                                  25
   Claims
   1.     Herbicidal compositions comprising:
 5 a) a herbicide A, which is the combination of imazethapyr, or agriculturally acceptable salts
   thereof and imazamox, or agriculturally acceptable salts thereof, and
   b) a herbicide B, which is sulfentrazone, or agriculturally acceptable salts thereof.
   2.     Compositions as claimed claim 1, wherein the relative amount of imazethapyr to
 0 imazamox and herbicide B is in synergistically effective amounts.
   3.     Compositions as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the relative
   amount of the herbicide A to the herbicide B is from 20:1 to 1:100, preferably from 10:1 to 1:40
   and more preferably from 5:1 to 1:20.
 5
   4.     The use of the compositions as claimed in any one of the preceding claims for controlling
   undesirable vegetation.
   5.     The use of the compositions as claimed in claim 4 wherein the undesirable vegetation is
 0 monocotyledonous and/or dicotyledonous weeds.
   6.     The use of the composition as claimed in claim 4 or 5 wherein the undesirable
   vegetation are weeds selected from the group consisting of Acalypha spec., Commelina spec.,
   Dinebra spec., Cynotis spec., Parthenium spec., Physalis spec., Digera spec., Phalaris spec,
 5 Leptochloa spec, Echinochloa spec., Setaria spec., Digitaria spec., Panicum spec., Brachiaria
   spec. Ambrosia spec., Geranium spec. Abutilon spec., Sesbania spec., Conyza spec.,
   Convolvulus spec. and Polygonum spec.
   7.     The use as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6 for controlling undesirable vegetation in
30 crop plants.
   8.     The use as claimed in claim 7, wherein the crop plants are leguminous crops.
   9.     The use as claimed in claim 8, wherein the crop plants are leguminous crops selected
35 from soybean, green gram, black gram, peas, cluster beans, pulse crops, peanut.
   10.    The use as claimed in claim 9, wherein the crop plant is soybean.
   11.    The use as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the crop plants are tolerant to
40 acetohydroxyacid synthase inhibiting herbicides.

                                                 26
  12.     The use as claimed in claim 11, wherein the crop plants tolerant to acetohydroxyacid
  synthase inhibiting herbicides are wheat, barley, canola, corn, lentils, oilseed rape, rice,
  soybean or sunflower.
5 13.    A method for controlling undesirable vegetation, which comprises allowing a composition
  as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 to act on plants to be controlled or their habitat.
  14.    A method for controlling undesired vegetation as claimed in claim 13, which comprises
  applying the composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 before, during and/or after the
0 emergence of the undesirable plants; the herbicide A and the herbicide B being applied
  simultaneously or in succession.
  15.    An herbicide formulation comprising a composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3
  and at least one solid or liquid carrier.
5

