                                            ABSTRACT
          Apparatus for providing controlled pressure-flow pulses which purge a catheter system
with turbulent flow flushing. Accomplishment of such controlled pressure- flow pulses is
provided by a variety of inventive devices including a special plunger rod (30) for a conventional
syringe (20), other interactive parts for conventional syringes, an in-line catheter attachable
device which automatically generates the controlled pressure-flow pulses and also single pulse,
digitally operated devices.

               1/9
          30
                          10
                       42
                    20
       FIGURE 1
                                  10
          20       40                30
72  70                                  99
               80           50
   90                42                    99
       92   9g  50           6050
        FIGURE 2

           APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR PURGING CATHETER SYSTEMS
Cross-reference to related applications
         This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>,
which in turn is a divisional of Australian Patent No 2010247969, which is a national phase application of
PCT Application No. PCT/US2010/033999 filed 7 May 2010, that claims priority to US Provisional
Application No. 12/387,937 filed 9 May 2009. The contents of each of these applications are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
Field of Invention
         This invention is associated with apparatus and methods for clearing catheter systems (e.g. IV
lines) by creating controlled and consistent turbulent flushing pressure and flow within the system to
purge the line of unwanted residue, and, in particular, the invention is associated with apparatus and
methods for creating such turbulent flushing pressure and flow substantially independent of clinician
technique.
Background and Related Art
         It is well known in IV care art that turbulent "start-stop" or "push-pause" flushing of IV catheters,
e.g. central venous catheters, has become an accepted method for purging matter from catheters and,
thereby, preventing build-up of deposits of blood, blood residue and IV drugs within a catheter. Such
build-up can cause partial or complete blockage of the fluid pathway in a catheter system, requiring
expensive and potentially dangerous methods for purging the catheter or necessitating a total catheter
exchange. Often, such blockages lead to interruptions in therapy (e.g. IV therapy) that may compromise
patient care. Further, buildup of residue within a catheter can also increase infection risk by providing a
breeding medium for microorganisms. For this reason, push-pause flushing is traditionally, and more or
less universally, taught to healthcare workers.
         Push-pause (or turbulent) flushing simply requires a clinician to alternately increase and decrease
an associated infusion rate during flushing. However, efficiency and success of catheter purging using
push-pause flushing is well known to be completely dependent upon individual awareness, compliance
and technique and a successful purging operation is often incomplete and problematic. For this reason,
many users may not use such turbulent flushing effectively while others, due to lack of knowledge or
perception of value, may not use it at all.
         Also, other than using turbulence for catheter clearance, syringes, pumps and other fluid forcing
mechanisms associated with IV infusion are substantially operated in a laminar
                                                   I

      flow domain. When pulsatile flow is used, pressure and flow characteristics are constrained
      well below those turbulent and volumetric flow levels required for effective catheter purging.
             In the wide spectrum of syringe design, it is common to find art which provides
  5  periodic stops of various types and kinds for syringe plungers. Generally, many such stops
     are employed to aid in accurately measuring and dispensing a portion of a syringe fill. Once
     such stops are reached, it is common for the plunger to be released to thereby permit
     controlled and substantially laminar flow to the next stop. In other words, such stops are
     generally released without a calculated, intentional force to propel the stopper with sufficient
 10  force for catheter purging. Other stops are commonly used to limit a syringe to a single use.
     Generally, these stops are hard and cannot be reasonably overcome, as is common in single
     use hypodermic syringes.
             An example of a plunger stop for the purpose of limiting injection of fluid from a
15   syringe is found in U.S. Pat. No. 4,642,102 issued Feb. 10, 1987 to Hirofumi Ohmori
     (Ohmori). Ohmori discloses stops which engage recesses in a plunger rod associated with a
     plunger to interrupt discharge from the syringe. After each stop, the plunger rod is strictly
     stopped such that no excessive force is able to drive the plunger rod further. Similarly U.S.
     Pat. No. 5,024,661 issued Jun. 18, 1991 to Harry Wender (Wender) discloses a single use
20   syringe having recesses along a plunger rod.
             U.S. Pat. No. 5,318,544 issued Jun. 7, 1994 to John Drypen, et al. discloses a
    metering syringe having a plunger rod containing a plurality of stop surfaces. The stop
    surfaces are spaced apart to define a predetermined dose volume. Plunger rod rotation
25  relieves each stop to permit further dispensing.
             U.S. Pat. No. 5,059,181 issued Oct. 22, 1991 to Robert B. Agran (Agran) also
    discloses a syringe assembly having recesses in a plunger rod which are used to retard a
    second rearward displacement of the plunger rod associated with a second use of the syringe
30  assembly. In similar manner, U.S. Pat. No. 5,084,017 issued Jan. 28, 1992 to John Maffetone
    (Maffetone) discloses a single use syringe having a notched plunger rod. The syringe of
                                                    2

     Maffatone is taught to operate smoothly, but to dissemble itself at the completion of a single
     use cycle.
              U.S. Pat. No. 5,280,030 issued Oct. 5, 1993 to Cesar G. Corsich, et al. (Corsich)
  5  discloses a hypodermic syringe having a blockable piston capable of preventing recharge and
     reuse under some conditions.
             U.S. Pat. No. 5,328,476 issued Jul. 12, 1994 to James Bidwell (Bidwell) discloses a
     single-use hypodermic syringe apparatus. Rachet grooves in an associated plunger rod are
 10 used as lock members such that when plunger is fully inserted or reinserted into a casing, the
    plunger is prevented from being withdrawn relative to the casing.
             U.S. Pat. No. 6,283,941 issued Sep. 4, 2001 to Joel Schoenfeld, et al. (Schoenfeld)
    discloses a rod-like syringe plunger having a plurality of bead-like rachet teeth. Schoenfeld
 15 also discloses a single use syringe. Of particular note is the statement, "It is a further object of
    the present invention to provide a single use syringe which has a smooth mechanical
    operation and a plunger retraction force less than the industry maximum standard." Such
    objectives are commonly held in the syringe art for manipulating syringe plunger rods.
20           U.S. Pat. No. 5,891,052 issued Apr. 6, 1999 to Paul L Simmons (Simmons) teaches a
    syringe plunger sabot and sabot lock disposed within a syringe body, the sabot lock
    mechanism being selectively moveable between a locked and unlocked position. Thereby an
    engagement is made to create a vacuum for extracting material into the syringe body.
25           U.S. Pat. No. 6,488,651 issued Dec. 3, 2002 to David Paul Morris et al. (Morris)
    discloses a mixing syringe having a plunger rod dasher which permits flow within the barrel
    for communicating material to be mixed with material in a more proximal chamber, Other
    cylindrical barriers provide within chamber defining spaces which are selectively displaced
    by movement of the plunger rod. Other than resistances of fluid dynamics and friction (and
30  stiction), no other retarding forces are taught.
                                                     3

              U.S. Pat. No. 6,579,269 BI issued Jun. 17, 2003 to Gennady I. Kleyman (Kleyman)
     discloses a dose measuring syringe. A plunger rod, as taught in Kleyman, has formations
     which increase resistance to displacement of the plunger rod and to produce an audible sound
     corresponding to a predetermined volume for a measured dose. Even so, there are no
  5  teachings in Kleyman for providing momentary stops which produce a predetermined amount
     of turbulent flow in a catheter.
              U.S. Pat. No. 5,685,864 issued Nov. 11, 1997 to Laurence M. Shanley, et al.
     (Shanley) discloses an aspiration syringe device which operates oppositely to aspirate rather
 10  than discharge into a connected site. A right angle stem of an associated plunger is equipped
     with spaced flanges. Interior of the syringe barrel is equipped with at least one stop. When a
     flange is contiguous with a stop, advancement of the plunger is prohibited. Rotation of the
     plunger permits further advancement.
15            U.S. Pat. No. 4,995,869 issued Feb. 16, 1991 to Martin McCarthy (McCarthy)
    discloses a single-use hypodermic syringe. A syringe barrel according to McCarthy has an
     interior undulating surface over which a skirt rides rearward under direction of a proximally
    directed manual force. While it seems apparent that the undulations will cause a pulsation in
    flow while discharging fluids via a patient needle, it is clear that there are no related
20  teachings for creating turbulent flow in a catheter, a subject untouched in McCarthy.
             Generally, in summary, prior art, of which art cited above is an example, discloses
    and teaches plunger rod having slots, grooves and rachet teeth are for providing obstructions
    used for measuring predetermined volumes of dispensed fluids or for stops associated with
25  providing single use syringes. Just as clinician-dependent generation of push-pause flow is
    problematic, all such art is void of teachings which assure successful creation of turbulent
    flow for clearing an associated attached catheter system. Such is the specific and precise
    purpose of the present invention.
30  BRIEF SUMMARY AND OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION
             In brief summary, this novel invention alleviates all of the known problems related to
    generating controlled and predetennined push-pause pressures and flows thereby providing
                                                    4

     controlled and consistent turbulent flow which is effective in purging matter disposed within
     a catheter system. The invention comprises methods and apparatus which are defined and
     designed to produce pressures resulting from dynamic releases by predetermined forces, each
     for a period which provides a controlled and consistent surge to effectively produce turbulent
  5  purging fluid flow at a site of concern within a catheter system.
             Generally, such flow is provided to a catheter system from a source of flush liquid
     from a container sized to hold a volume of liquid consistent with flow volume requirements
     of a desired pressure pulse. In each case, an actuator opens a valve mechanism at a
 10  predetermined pressure to initiate the desired liquid pulse pressure and resulting liquid flow.
     The sensing actuator has an operating hysteresis which ultimately stops flow to end the
     pressure pulse. Of course, an implement which, by example, may be a pump or piston, is a
     crucial part of the apparatus for providing sufficient pressure to activate the valve
     mechanism. To retain adequate pressure throughout the pulse, a memory element provides a
15   source of stored energy received from the implement and releases the stored energy upon
     valve mechanism opening to retain the turbulent flushing fluid pressure and flow for a desired
    pulse period.
             One embodiment of the apparatus is application of the invention to a syringe, and
20  more specifically, to a plunger rod of a syringe. In such a case, the barrel of a syringe is the
    container. Displacement of the plunger rod (and associated plunger) within the barrel acts as
    an implement to dispense liquid from the syringe. Commonly found at the proximal end of
    conventional syringes is a retention ring formed of reduced diameter relative to the diameter
    of the rest of the syringe barrel. This retention ring is used as a tactile indicator between an
25  entry disk disposed on the stem of a plunger rod just proximal from the plunger affixed to the
    plunger rod, providing an impedance which must be overcome to extract the plunger rod (and
    plunger) from the syringe barrel.
             At least one actuating geometry, sized and shaped to require a predetermined force to
30  displace the actuating geometry past the retention ring, is disposed proximally on the stem
    relative to the entry disk. Forcing the actuating geometry past the retention ring yields the
    force necessary to provide desired turbulent flushing fluid pressure and initiate flow. Such
                                                      5

     geometry may be a disk on the plunger or an interfacing nub on exterior edges of shafts of a
     plunger rod. Reflexive motion associated with forcing the actuating disk past the retention
     disk provides the memory based, stored energy necessary to assure continuation of forced
     flow thereby providing the pressure pulse. The length of the pressure pulse is determined by
  5  either the plunger being displaced to empty the syringe barrel or a second actuating disk
     disposed proximally on the stem relative to the actuating disk just forced through the
     retention ring to provide a tactilely determinable stop. Note, that resistance of this stop,
     relative to reflexive energy applied to displace the syringe plunger rod, provides the
     hysteresis specified. In this manner, a conventional syringe barrel, in combination with a
 10 plunger rod made according to specifications of the instant invention, can provide desired
     pulse-pause pressure pulses from a syringe substantially independent of a syringe user. It may
     be preferred to provide a segment of a plunger rod free of actuating geometry to provide a
     "no-pulse" segment to enable conventional flush technique to check for possible occlusions
     and to verify blood return.
 15
             In another embodiment, the pulse-pause pressure pulse is provided by an in-line
    apparatus. Source for fluid is from a receptacle having sufficient volume to fill a container
    from which the pressure pulse is generated, the container being a hollow cylindrical vessel
    which receives liquid from the receptacle through a one-way valve. Communication for
20  dispensing liquid to the catheter system is through another one-way valve.
             The valve mechanism is a plunger, sized and shaped to displace fluid within the
    vessel through the one-way valve to the catheter system. Further, the vessel has a retention
    ring similar to the retention ring of the barrel of a conventional syringe. A valve-actuating
25  disk associated with the plunger is sized and shaped to require predetermined force necessary
    to generate a desired pulse toward the catheter system. Volume of the vessel determines pulse
    volume. Again, as in the case of the syringe, reflexive action resulting from release of force
    when the actuating disk is driven past the retention ring assures adequate pulse pressure. The
    actual implement for driving the plunger is derived from a button affixed to the plunger and
30  associated rod whereby the plunger is manually driven through the vessel. A spring disposed
                                                      6

     to be compressed when the pressure pulse is generated stores energy to return the plunger and
     refill the vessel for a subsequent pulse-pause cycle.
              Other embodiments of the present invention involve a pressure sensitive switch
  5  having an actuator which opens the valve at a higher predetermined pressure and closes at a
     lower predetermined pressure. Generally, the source is a fluid receptacle upstream from a
     pressure-providing device which provides fluid dispensed at a predetermined pressure and
     flow. A vessel acts as a container which communicates with the pressure providing device
     through a flow restrictor. Further, the vessel communicates with the catheter system through
 10  the pressure sensitive valve. The pressure sensitive valve is selected to have an opening
     pressure which provides a fluid pulse having desired turbulent flow characteristics and
     closing at a pressure after a desire flow volume has been achieved and pressure within the
     vessel is reduced below the lower predetermined pressure.
15            In one of these other embodiments, a pump provides pressure of the source. A spring
    loaded piston chamber provides opportunity to gather volume for the pressure pulse which
    fills at a pressure lower than the higher predetermined pressure through a flow restrictor
    affixed to the output of the pump, but at a pressure higher than the lower predetermined
    pressure. Thus, the higher predetermined pressure is reached only upon filling the chamber.
20  Once the chamber is filled, the valve is opened by the actuator to initiate the controlled
    pressure pulse. When the chamber is emptied, pressure in the vessel drops below the lower
    predetermined pressure and the actuator closes the valve. If this embodiment remains affixed
    to the catheter system a subsequent pressure pulse is generated automatically.
25            Another of other embodiments involves a squeezable tube, In this case the tube
    communicates with the catheter system through a pressure sensitive valve, having valve
    actuator opening characteristics as disclosed supra. Upstream the tube communicates with the
    source through a one-way valve. Pressure from the source does not reach or exceed the higher
    predetermined pressure, but is sufficient to fill the tube. Thus, pressure from the upstream
30  source and elastic memory in the tube cause the tube to fill through the upstream one-way
    valve. Once the tube is adequately filled, it is selectively squeezed to cause the pressure to
    rise to at least the higher predetermined pressure. Once pressure within the tube is at or above
                                                      7

     the higher predetermined pressure, the valve is opened and the pressure pulse is initiated. The
     pressure pulse is continued by reflexive action following valve opening. Expulsion of liquid
     from the tube ultimately results in valve closing ending the pressure pulse. The pressure pulse
     may be continued until the tube is substantially empty.
  5
              Methods for using embodiments of the instant invention generally involve filling a
     chamber or vessel, of predetermined size, from which a pulse of liquid is to be dispensed,
     causing pressure within the chamber or vessel to exceed a predetermined pressure and
     selectively opening a pathway to the catheter system only when that pressure is achieved, In
 10  that manner, a desired, controlled pulse-pause pressure pulse is achieved and provided
     substantially independent of performance of a user.
             Accordingly, it is a primary object to provide apparatus which provides substantially
     user independent, controlled pulse-pause pulsatile flow of sufficiently turbulent flushing
 15 pressure and flow within a catheter system to substantially purge the line of unwanted
    residue.
             It is a primary object to provide such apparatus which is used within a barrel of a
    conventional syringe.
20
             It is another primary object to provide such apparatus which provides in-line
    operation between a fluid source and the catheter system.
             It is an object to provide such apparatus which provides for a series of manually
25  generated pulse-pause pressure pulses.
             It is an important object to provide such apparatus which uses a pump as an
    implement.
30           It is another object to provide apparatus which provide controlled pressure pulses
    resulting from opening and closing a pressure sensitive valve.
                                                     8

             These and other objects and features of the present invention will be apparent from
     the detailed description taken with reference to accompanying drawings.
     Definitions of Some Terms Used in the Specification
  5  catheter system\n: a combination of tubes and other devices used to deliver fluids to
    patients, e.g. a medical catheter (e.g. IV catheter), delivery tubing (e.g. feeding tube) and
     associated connectors
     fluid\n: a gas or liquid
    TV\adj: a mode of delivery of fluids to a patient, in this case the mode is intravascular
 10  laminar flow\n: streamline flow which is relatively smooth and even, such as flow near a
    solid boundary and contrasted with turbulent flow
    turbulent flow\n: a fluid flow in which the velocity at a given point varies erratically in
    magnitude and direction with time and is thus essentially variable in pattern and is contrasted
    with laminar flow
 15 valve mechanism\n a fluid control device generally defined herein to be a device for
    initiating a pressure pulse when opened and ending the pressure pulse when closed; within
    this general definition, pulse-pressure generating action of a syringe plunger rod being
    displaced to actuate a pressure pulse is considered to be a valve mechanism
20  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             FIG. 1 is a perspective of a syringe and plunger rod made according to the present
    invention where stem of the plunger rod has a plurality of disks disposed upon the length
    thereof.
25           FIG. 2 is a cross section of the syringe and plunger rod and seen in FIG. 1.
             FIG. 2A is a cross section of a syringe and plunger rod which is similar to the syringe
    and plunger rod of FIG. 2, but wherein edges of disks are shaped to facilitate displacing the
    plunger rod into the syringe and deterring the plunger rod from being removed from the
30  barrel, once so displaced.
                                                      9

             FIG. 2B is a cross section of a syringe and plunger rod which is similar to the syringe
     and plunger rod of FIG. 2, but wherein edges of disks are shaped to facilitate displacing the
     plunger rod out of the syringe once displaced therein.
  5          FIG. 2C is a cross section of a syringe and plunger rod which is similar to syringes
     and plunger rods of FIGS. 2, 2A and 2B, but having nubs along a shaft of a plunger rod
     instead of disks.
             FIG. 3 is a perspective of the plunger rod seen in FIG. 1.
 10
             FIG. 4 is a perspective of a syringe and plunger rod wherein the plunger rod is similar
    to the plunger rod of FIG. I but fabricated with a plurality of breakaway rings disposed about
    to stem of the plunger rod.
 15         FIG. 5 is a perspective of the plunger rod seen in FIG. 4.
            FIG. 6 is a perspective of the syringe and plunger rod seen in FIG. 4 with at least one
    breakaway ring sheered from the stem of the plunger rod.
20          FIG. 7 is a perspective of a syringe and plunger rod wherein the plunger rod is similar
    to the plunger rod of FIG. I but having a pattern of undulations on the stem and a
    constraining elastomeric ring about the proximal syringe barrel opening.
            FIG. 8 is a cross section of the syringe, plunger rod and elastomeric ring seen in FIG.
25  7.
            FIG. 9 is a perspective of an automatic, in-line pulsing device made according to the
    present invention.
30          FIG. 10 is a cross section of the automatic, in-line pulsing device seen in FIG. 9
    showing state of the device at the end of a pulse.
                                                    10

             FIG. I is a cross section of the automatic pulsing device seen in FIG. 9 showing state
     of the device when charged before actuating a pulse.
             FIG. 12 is a cross section of the automatic pulsing device seen in FIG. 9 showing state
  5  of the device during pulse generation.
             FIG. 13 is a perspective of the device seen in FIG. 9 with a syringe affixed to the
     device to provide a fluid pressure source.
 10          FIG. 14 is a schematic drawing of a system which employs a pumped fluid source for
    the device seen in FIG. 9.
             FIG. 15 is a perspective of a squeezable device for providing a controlled pressure
    pulse according to the instant invention,
 15
             FIG. 16 is a cross section of the device seen in FIG. 15.
             FIG. 17 is a cross section of the device seen in FIG. 14 with a medical section
    squeezed at the end of a controlled release pressure pulse.
20
             FIG. 18 is a perspective of a manually operated controlled pressure pulse device made
    according to the present invention.
             FIG. 19 is a cross section of the device seen in FIG. 18 filled before initiating a
25  controlled pressure pulse.
            FIG. 20 is a cross section of the device seen in FIG. 18 at the end of a pressure pulse.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED EMBODIMENTS
30          In this description, the term proximal is used to indicate the segment of the device
    normally closest to the object of the sentence describing its position. The term distal refers to
                                                     11

     a site opposite the proximal section. Reference is now made to the embodiments illustrated in
     FIGS. 1-20 wherein like numerals are used to designate like pails throughout.
             Reference is now made to FIG. I wherein a preferred embodiment of a
  5  syringe/plunger rod combination 10 of the instant invention is seen. Combination 10
     comprises a conventional syringe barrel 20 and a plunger rod 30. Salient features of
     combination 10 are better seen in FIG. 2 to comprise barrel 20 having a retention ring 40
     disposed at proximal barrel hole opening 42 and plunger rod 30 comprising a plurality of
     actuating geometry, interfaces or rings, generally numbered 50) disposed along a stem 60
 10  thereof. In addition, as is common with plunger rods of conventional syringes, plunger rod 30
     has a plunger 70 affixed to the distal end 80 of stem 60. It may be noted that distal end 80 has
     a threaded geometry portion 90 which permits plunger rod 30 to be affixed to plunger 70 after
     barrel 20 is filled with liquid, generally referenced as liquid 72. A plunger rod 30 is seen
     alone in FIG. 3 providing a clearer view of threaded portion 90.
15
             Further, plunger rod 30 has a first ring 92 which can be forced past retention ring 40
    when plunger 70 and stem 60 are inserted into barrel 20. First ring 92 is sized and shaped to
    be forcible displaced through retention ring 40, but provide a tactilely discernable stop such
    that plunger 70 is not inadvertently displaced out of barrel 20,
20
             Each actuator ring 50 is sized and shaped to be obstructed by retention ring 40. Each
    actuator ring 50 is further sized and shaped to require a predetermined force which must be
    exceeded to displace a contacting actuator geometry (e.g. retention ring interface 50) past
    retention ring 40. For this reason, fluid within barrel 20 is displaced with resulting
25  acceleration and velocity resulting from the predetermined force when the contacting ring 50
    is releasibly displaced through retention ring 40. Generally the resulting acceleration and
    velocity is of liquid which is discharged from syringe barrel 20 to turbulently flush liquid 72
    through an associated catheter system. In this manner, each time a contacting ring 50 is
    displaced past retention ring 40 a pulse of pressurized liquid 72 is purged into the catheter
30  system providing a turbulent flushing pulse of liquid 72 there through.
                                                      12

              As well, a more proximal ring 94 of rings 50 may be further shaped and sized to
     require a force which is greater than more distal rings 50 to provide a reminder that the pulse
     resulting from actuation using ring 94 is the last pulse provided by liquid 72 from
     combination 10. For this reason, ring 94 may be referenced as reminder ring 94 hereafter.
  5  Note, that, if plunger rod 30 is not displaced sufficiently far into barrel 20 to displace
     reminder ring 94 past retention ring 40, no back flow or reflux should occur in an associated
     catheter system. Note that proximal end 98 of stein 60 is convex or dome shaped to facilitate
     application of digital force against plunger rod 30.
 10          As well, it may be noted that rings 50 are not necessarily spaced uniformly. As an
     example a space 99 between first ring 92 and next most proximal ring 50 is relatively large
    compared to space between other rings, generally numbered 50. This provides for a "no
    pulse" segment which may be used for conventional sampling for catheter blood flow to
    assure proper catheter operation.
 15
             Attention is now directed to FIG. 2A wherein a second combination 20' of a
    conventional syringe barrel 20 and a plunger rod 30' is seen. Plunger rod 30' is similar to
    plunger rod 30, having a series of actuator rings 50' disposed along the length thereof
    However, in the case of combination 10', rings 50' are shaped and sized (as seen in FIG. 2A)
20  to be more easily displaced into barrel 20 (and distally through retention ring 40) than
    displaced barrel 20 (proximally through retention ring). Such meets a condition whereby
    plunger rod 30' is not easily removed from barrel 20, once used to promote a single use
    application.
25           On the other hand, it may be desired to refill and reuse such a combination. In such a
    case, it is desired to displace a plunger rod 30" of a third combination 10" more easily
    proximally than distally. In such a case, actuating rings 50" disposed along a stem 60 are
    shaped as seen in FIG. 2B.
30           Rings 50 seen in FIG. 2, may be replaced by nubs 52 on a plunger rod 32 as seen as
    combination 12 in FIG. 2C. Replacement of rings 50 by nubs 52 may be done without
                                                     13

     degradation of effect of producing desired turbulence by sizing and shaping nubs 52 to
     require forces similar to that required of rings 50 for displacement past retention ring 40.
             Another embodiment, seen as combination 110, of the instant invention is seen in
  5  FIGS. 4-6. As in combination 10, combination 110 comprises a conventional syringe barrel
     20. Note that syringe barrel 20 has a proximal entry hole 122 associated with retention ring
     40. As seen in FIGS. 4 and 5, an associated plunger rod 30 also comprises a series of actuator
     rings, generally numbered 150. disposed along a stem 60 of plunger rod 130. However, rather
     than being sized and shaped to be forced through retention ring 40 of barrel 20 to create a
10   desired pressure pulse, rings 150 are affixed to stem 60 in a manner which permits each
    actuation ring 150 to be sheared from stem 60 as it is displaced into barrel entry hole 42.
             Shear force at separate actuation rings 150 from stem 60, similar to displacement
    force past retention ring 40 of combination 10, is geometrically and mechanically designed to
15  provide a predetermined acceleration and velocity which purveys desired turbulent flow to
    purge and discharge unwanted contaminants from a downstream catheter system. Note, in
    FIG. 6, that a first more distally disposed actuator ring 150 is seen to be captured by a second,
    more proximally disposed actuator ring 150 exterior to hole in FIG. 6. Note that piling up of
    sheared actuation rings 150 may be used to prevent a syringe from being fully evacuated.
20
             Yet another embodiment of the instant invention is seen as combination 210, which
    may use a conventional syringe barrel 20, is seen in FIGS. 7 and 8. In addition to barrel 20,
    combination 210 comprises an elastomeric restrictor 230 a plunger rod 240 with a stem 242.
    Stem 242 comprises a plurality of elongated side members, each numbered 244. Each side
25  member has an undulating exterior edge, numbered 246. High points of the undulations are
    generally numbered 248.
             Restrictor 230 is shaped and configured to provide a port about barrel entry hole 42
    (see FIGS. 1 and 2). A restrictor entry hole 250 is sized and shaped to obstruct inward
30  displacement of plunger rod 240 upon collision between restrictor 230 and each high point
    248. A combination of selected durometer of the elastomer of restrictor 230, and collision
    geometry of high points 248 and hole 250 combine to require a predetermined force for
                                                     14

     further displacement of plunger rod 240. This predetermined force is comparable to the force
     required for displacement of plunger rod 30 past retention ring 40 (see FIGS. 1-3). In this
     manner, a pressure pulse which provides turbulent flow for purging an attached catheter
     system is generated each time high points 248 are displaced through hole 250 of restrictor
  5  230.
             Reference is now made to FIGS. 9-12 wherein an in-line automatic pulsing device
     310 made according to the instant invention is seen. As seen in FIG. 9, device 310 comprises
     an upstream or proximal connection 320, into which liquid from a liquid source is provided.
 10  Further device 310 comprises an output port and connector 330 which may be connected to a
     downstream catheter system. For proper operation, liquid pressure available from the source
     must be greater than desired pressure of a purging liquid pulse emitted by device 310.
             As seen in FIG. 10, a pressure sensitive valve 340 is disposed to close output port and
 15  connector 330 when pressure is below the desired pressure. Just distal from proximal
     connection 320 is a check valve 350 to obstruct backflow and retard inflow to a
    predetennined level of flow. Medially disposed between pressure sensitive valve 340 and
     check valve 350 is a pulse reservoir chamber 360. Disposed within chamber 360 is a piston
     370 and spring 380 which acts within chamber 360 to store a volume of liquid when valve
20   330 is closed.
             When choosing pressure sensitive valve 340, a valve should be selected which has an
    opening pressure to closing pressure hysteresis having a predetermined pressure differential
    for purposes clarified hereafter. The pressure differential being defined as a difference
25  between release high pressure and a low closing pressure. The high pressure being a pressure
    which creates a pressure pulse having sufficient force and flow to cause down stream
    turbulence which purges a desired amount of material from an attached catheter system. The
    lower pressure being a pressure to which pressure inside device 310 falls after clearing of
    liquid from chamber 360. Note that, for pressure inside 310 to fail to the lower pressure,
30  inflow from the source must be restricted to a lower flow rate than outflow through output
    port and connector 330.
                                                    15

              Steps of operation of device 310 are seen to embody a beginning state seen in FIG. 10
     where chamber 360 is empty and spring 380 is decompressed and valve 350 is closed.
     Subsequent filling of chamber 360 is seen in FIG. 11. Valve 340 is opened when spring 380
     is fully compressed to discharge liquid from device 310 thereby. Of course, once valve 350
  5  closes, the pulse cycle repeats.
              Sources for pressurized fluid for device 310 are seen in FIGS. 13 and 14. In FIG. 13, a
    conventional syringe 390 is affixed to proximal connection 320. Source pressure is provided
    by the force displacing an associated plunger rod 392. Note that sufficient pressure is
 10 required to fully charge chamber 360 before actuating valve 350.
              In FIG. 14, a more sophisticated pressure providing source system is seen including a
    saline bag 304, a pump 396 and a variable liquid flow restrictor 398. Source liquid from bag
    394 is drawn and pumped by pump 396 to provide pressure equal to or greater than the high
15  pressure necessary to open valve 350. Variable restrictor is set to determine pump 396 to
    device 310 liquid transfer rate to determine device 310 output pulse rate.
             Reference is now made to FIGS. 15-17 wherein an in-line pinch or squeeze pump
    410, made according to the instant invention, is seen. As seen in FIG. 16, device 410
20  comprises an upstream or proximal connection 420, into which liquid from a liquid source is
    provided. Further device 410 comprises an output port and connector 430 which may be
    connected to a downstream catheter system. For proper operation, liquid pressure available
    from the source must only be greater than filling pressure of an expandable tube 440 which is
    sized and shaped to be easily filled and purged by squeezing.
25
             As seen in FIG. 16, a pressure sensitive valve 340 (see also FIGS. 11-13 of device
    310, disclosed supra) is disposed to close output port and connector 430 when pressure is
    below a predetermined pressure. Just distal from proximal connection 420 is a check valve
    450 to obstruct backflow. Tube 440 provides a storage medium which defines pulse flow
30  quantity when device 410 is actuated. To operate, tube 440 is squeezed until valve 340 is
    opened to provide a pressure pulse according to the present invention. Continued reflexive
    squeezing dispenses liquid through valve 340 to create a plusatile flow of liquid having
                                                     16

     sufficient turbulent flow and pressure to purge an attached catheter system. Note that pressure
     of source liquid need only be at a sufficiently high pressure to fill tube 440 and that tube 440
     may have sufficient inherent structural memory to provide a somewhat negative filling
     pressure requirement. This same memory reduces liquid pressure inside tube 440 to cause
  5  valve 340 to close at the end of a pulse generating cycle.
             Another device 510 which provides manually, digitally generated controlled pressure
     pulses for purging catheter systems according to the present invention is seen in FIGS. 18-20.
     As seen in FIG. 19, device 510 comprises an upstream or proximal connection 520, into
 10  which liquid from a liquid source is provided. Further device 510 comprises an output port
     and connector 530 which may be connected to a downstream catheter system. For proper
     operation, liquid pressure available from the source must only be greater than filling pressure
     of a spring piston combination 540. Combination 540 comprises a depressible button and rod
     550, a compressible spring 560 and a plunger 570. Plunger 570 is sized and shaped to
 15 evacuate liquid from a hollow vertical chamber 580 which communicates orthogonally with a
    hollow liquid flow chamber 590 disposed for liquid communication between proximal
    connection 520 and output port 530. Amount of liquid stored in vertical chamber 580 and
    released upon displacement of plunger 570 determines pulse volume of liquid delivered to the
    downstream catheter system.
20
             As seen in FIG. 19, a pressure sensitive valve 340 (see also FIGS. 11-13 of device
    310, disclosed supra) is disposed to close output port and connector 530 when pressure is
    below a predetermined pressure. Just distal from proximal connection 520 is a check valve
    450 to obstruct backflow. To operate device 510, button 550 is depressed to open valve 340
25  thereby providing a pressure pulse according to the present invention. Continued reflexively
    depressing button 550 dispenses liquid through valve 340 to create a plusatile flow of liquid
    having sufficient turbulent flow and pressure to purge an attached catheter system. Note that
    pressure of source liquid need only be at a sufficiently high pressure to fill chamber 580 and
    that combination 540 with spring 560 should have sufficient inherent structural memory to
30  provide a negative filling pressure inside chamber 590. This same memory reduces liquid
    pressure inside chamber 590 to cause valve 340 to close at the end of a pulse generating
    cycle.
                                                    17

            To operate device 510, chamber 580 is permitted to fill with liquid provided through
   connector 520. Button 550 is depressed to provide sufficient force to open valve 340 and
   reflexively thereafter continued to be depressed until liquid is purged from chamber 580 as
   seen in FIG. 20 to produce the desired purging pressure pulse. Once combination 540 is fully
 5 depressed, force on button 550 is relieved to permit refilling of chamber 580 for generating a
   subsequent pressure pulse.
            The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the
   spirit or essential characteristics thereof The present embodiment is therefore to be
10 considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive, the scope of the invention being
   indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description, and all changes
   which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended
   to be embraced therein.
                                                   18

 CLAIMS:
1.       A flush syringe comprising:
         a barrel including a proximal opening and a restrictor disposed at the proximal opening to
create a restrictor entry; and
         a plunger rod disposed within the barrel for slideable displacement within the barrel, the
plunger rod comprising a stem including a plurality of elongated side members, the elongated
side members comprising an undulating exterior edge with a plurality of high points that collide
with the restrictor to require a predetermined force for displacement of the plunger rod distally
within the barrel.
2.       The flush syringe of claim 1, wherein the barrel is filled with a liquid.
3.       The flush syringe of claim 2, wherein the liquid is a flush fluid.
4.       The flush syringe of claim 2, wherein the barrel is filled with an amount of the liquid that
provides turbulent flow to the liquid when the plurality of high points are displaced through the
restrictor entry.
5.       The flush syringe of claim 2, wherein the restrictor comprises an elastomer having a
selected durometer that provides turbulent flow to the liquid when the high points are displaced
through the restrictor entry.
6.       The flush syringe of claim 1, wherein the stem of the plunger rod comprises a space
between the plurality of high points that prevents acceleration and velocity within the barrel as
the plunger rod is displaced distally within the barrel.
7.       The flush syringe of claim 1, wherein the restrictor entry is sized and shaped to obstruct
inward displacement of the plunger rod upon collision between the restrictor and the high points.
                                                  19

8.      The flush syringe of claim 1, wherein the plurality of high points and the restrictor entry
have a collision geometry.
9.      The flush syringe of claim 8, wherein the collision geometry of the plurality of high
points and the restrictor entry and a selected durometer of the elastomer of the restrictor require a
predetermined force for displacement of the plunger rod.
10.     The flush syringe of claim 1, wherein the restrictor is configured to provide a port about
the proximal opening of the barrel.
                                                 20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
