Abstract
A method of absorbing energy from a moving object upon impact wherein the method
comprises the steps of: utilizing at least two types of energy absorbing elements, to absorb
at least some of the energy of the impact, in an energy absorbing apparatus, wherein a first
type of element absorbs the majority of the energy absorbed by a first compression step of a
compressing fluid contained within a first sealed volume, and dissipated said majority of the
energy absorbed by the apparatus, the first type of energy absorbing element is in the form
of a shell comprising at least one external wall; wherein at least one subsequent type of
energy absorbing element continues to absorb energy after the first type of element has
ceased operation and can no longer absorb energy via a second compression step of
compressing said subsequent energy absorbing element(s).

WO 2010/117283                                                                   PCT/NZ2010/000064
                               ENERGY ABSORPTION DEVICE
 This application is a divisional application of AU2014277803 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein
 by reference.
            STATEMENT OF CORRESPONDING APPLICATIONS
            This application is based on the Provisional Specification filed in relation to
            New Zealand Patent Application Number 576140, the entire contents of which are
            incorporated herein by reference.
            TECHNICAL FIELD
            This invention relates to an energy absorbing device.
            BACKGROUND ART
            A wide variety of energy absorbing apparatus are available for use in situations
            where it is desirable to absorb the energy of an impact.
            For ease of reference only, the present invention will now be described with regard
            to roading applications, where impact of an erratic vehicle with a stationary object,
            (such as for example only: a wall, utility, pole or tree) can cause severe injury
            and/or death to occupants travelling in the vehicle. Similarly, vehicles that have
            been driven off course may be significantly slowed down by contact with an energy
            absorbing apparatus, reducing the danger when entering areas of risk, particularly
            at high speeds.
            Vehicle collisions with stationary objects are a large contributor to deaths and
            serious injuries. To reduce the damage to occupants during a collision, a number
            of assemblies have been devised to absorb and/or transfer the energy from the
             impact.
                                                           1

WO 2010/117283                                                             PCT/NZ2010/000064
          It is well known to use containers filled with water or sand as energy absorbing
          devices between roadways and stationary objects. One of the major disadvantages
          of this system is that the devices are relatively heavy, and in the case of the water
          filled devices, often difficult to maintain.
          It is also well known to use air tight containers to absorb impact energy. These are
          somewhat effective, however once the container has had an initial impact and the
          container shattered or broken, there is no further way that energy can continue to
          be absorbed. These containers are known to be used both on land and sea,
          however they are not particularly effective when receiving a high energy impact.
          US Patent 5,123,775 describes an impact attenuator to absorb the impact of
          vehicular collisions. The device described in this patent includes a fibreglass shell
          which defines a cavity in the interior thereof. Housed within the cavity is a plurality
           of layers of empty aluminium beverage cans. Each layer consists of a plurality of
           cans stacked end to end in a number of columns in the direction of anticipated
           impact. Each of the layers is then separated by a cardboard divider to maintain
           separation between the layers, and the assembled cans are then surrounded by a
           burlap shroud before being encased within the fibreglass shell.
           This assembly has a number of disadvantages. As the aluminium cans are stacked
           end to end within the layers, the device will only function at its most effective when
           the collision occurs in a direction which is head-on into the end of the cans. This
           limits the types of situation where this assembly can be used and also may
           increase risk to a vehicle occupant if the apparatus is impacted from the non
           preferable angle. Additionally as the individual layers of cardboard and cans are
           not fixed together, the energy absorbed on impact is not readily transferred
           throughout all layers of the device, limiting the effectiveness of the entire device to
           absorb impact. This system is also fairly labour intensive to produce, as individual
           cans need to be correctly positioned within columns and then layers, with
                                                       2

WO 2010/117283                                                            PCT/NZ2010/000064
         cardboard dividers. The can and cardboard interior needs to then be encased in a
         burlap sack, then inserted within a fibreglass shell, making the process of
         producing the assembly time consuming and labour intensive.
         A number of other roading barriers are known, such as those constructed using
         tyres. One such longitudinal barrier is described in WO 03/097964. This patent
         specification describes a longitudinal barrier constructed from a plurality of tyres
         that are configured in a staggered brick type fashion or are stacked on top of each
         other to form columns. The tyres are held in position by a series of cables, wire
         rope, or stakes depending on the configuration of the tyres. One disadvantage
         with this system is that tyres solely absorb the impact of a vehicle. For example
         the energy of the impact is only transferred to horizontally adjacent tyres via
         upright supports (binding devices 16, 26 or 47) The binding devices have a small
         surface area so the transfer of force to a tyre is limited. This invention is also
         labour intensive as it requires holes 13 to be cut into the tyres, refer to Figures 1, 3
         and 5. Once the tyres have had holes introduced to them, there is a reduction in
         the amount of energy that can be absorbed or transferred through the system,
         further reducing the effectiveness of the tyres in absorbing impact. The barrier of
         WO 03/097964 is also limited slightly in that it is not surrounded by an outer shell
         or casing. The addition of an outer casing or shell seals the air inside the barrier,
         providing further resistance when the barrier is absorbing an impact.
          In summary, the problem with the prior art assemblies such as shown in US
          5,123,775 and WO 03/097964 is the fact the vehicle itself still has to absorb the
          majority of the force of impact, which cannot be transferred or absorbed by the
          assembly, for the reasons mentioned above. In the case of US 5,123,755 the
          impact absorption efficiency is limited is by the aluminium cans not being
          connected to either each other or the layered cardboard. On impact, the cans may
         fall apart from each other once the fibreglass housing has been shattered, further
                                                      3

WO 2010/117283                                                            PCT/NZ2010/000064
         increasing the energy that needs to be absorbed by the vehicle instead of the
         barrier. These problems occur due to both prior art assemblies relying on the
         resilience of the individual materials to absorb the majority of the impact. Each of
         the above assemblies are also potentially time consuming and labour intensive to
         manufacture on a large scale.
         It would therefore be useful to have an assembly where the elements within the
         assembly are all interconnected in such a way, to increase the amount of energy
         that is absorbed and/or transferred to the assembly from an impacting vehicle,
         thereby decreasing the amount of force conveyed back to the occupants of the
         colliding vehicle. Additionally, it would also be an advantage to have an assembly
         that could be quickly and easily manufactured using readily available materials. It
         would be a further advantage to have an assembly that could be constructed in a
          range of shapes, such as; circular, square; a line, to suit a range of applications,
         without being expensive to construct.
          Conventional energy absorbing apparatus and road barriers including those as
          described above only utilise a single type of energy absorbing element. It would
          also be useful if there could be provided an energy absorbing device which can
          utilise at least 2 types of energy absorbing elements.
          It is an object of the present invention to address the foregoing problems or at least
          to provide the public with a useful choice.
          All references, including any patents or patent applications cited in this
          specification are hereby incorporated by reference. No admission is made that any
          reference constitutes prior art. The discussion of the references states what their
          authors assert, and the applicants reserve the right to challenge the accuracy and
          pertinency of the cited documents. It will be clearly understood that, although a
          number of prior art publications are referred to herein, this reference does not
                                                      4

WO 2010/117283                                                            PCT/NZ2010/000064
          constitute an admission that any of these documents form part of the common
          general knowledge in the art, in New Zealand or in any other country.
           It is acknowledged that the term 'comprise' may, under varying jurisdictions, be
          attributed with either an exclusive or an inclusive meaning. For the purpose of this
          specification, and unless otherwise noted, the term 'comprise' shall have an
          inclusive meaning - i.e. that it will be taken to mean an inclusion of not only the
          listed components it directly references, but also other non-specified components
          or elements. This rationale will also be used when the term 'comprised' or
          'comprising' is used in relation to one or more steps in a method or process.
          Further aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent
          from the ensuing description which is given by way of example only.
           DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
          According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided an energy
          absorbing device having a shell comprising at least one external wall defining an
          internal area, wherein said internal area is further defined by one or more interior
          wall(s) spanning across at least a portion of said internal area between opposing
          sections of said external wall(s).
          According a further aspect of the present invention there is provided an energy
           absorbing device wherein said interior wall(s) define a further space within the
           interior area of the shell.
           In further preferred embodiments the one or more interior wall(s) span between
           opposing external walls of the shell such that the internal space spans across the
           shell.
                                                       5

WO 2010/117283                                                               PCT/NZ2010/000064
         Most preferably, in use, the further space spans across the shell in a direction
         substantially parallel or orthogonal to the general direction in which an impact is
         expected.
         The further space is in most embodiments generally open to the ambient
         environment. However, in some further embodiments the further space may be
         sealed by a section of the shell.
         According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
         manufacturing a device to absorb impact energy, characterised by the step of
         creating a shell comprising at least one external wall defining an internal area,
         wherein said internal area is further defined by one or more interior walls spanning
         across at least a portion of said internal area between opposing sections of said
         wall(s).
         For the purposes of this invention the term "wall" should be taken to mean any
         surface that can be used to define a space or act as a boundary between spaces.
         In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the shell isrmade from substantially
         inflexible material. Ideally, the material should be capable of being compressed
         when impacted by a force of sufficient magnitude. For example, in roading
         applications a force of sufficient magnitude will exist when a vehicle collides with
         the energy absorbing device.
         In preferred embodiments the material from which the shell is made may be
         moulded plastic, such as for example only, medium density polyethylene. In some
         alternative embodiments the shell material may be metal.
         It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that this list of possible materials
         from which the shell may be made is. not intended to be exhaustive nor limiting.
                                                      6

WO 2010/117283                                                             PCT/NZ2010/000064
         It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that what constitutes a force of
         sufficient magnitude will vary depending on the situation in which the energy
         absorbing device is designed to absorb energy. Thus, the type and thickness of
         material may vary depending on the situation.
         In further preferred embodiments the shell is substantially airtight. The inventor
         has found that air trapped within the internal area can provide,a degree of
         resistance to the force of an impact from an oncoming vehicle or similar, during the
         period that the air is compressed within the internal area, upon deformation of the
         shell.
         The shell and air (or other compressible fluid) housed within therefore constitutes a
         first type of energy absorbing element. In such further preferred embodiments the
         interior walls also become compressed during an impact to constitute a second
         type of energy absorbing element. If the further space created by the interior walls
         is sealed any air or other compressible fluid housed within can constitute a third
         type of energy absorbing element.
          Preferably, the shell is substantially rectangular in shape, although it is envisioned
         that the housing may be made into any shape as may be needed for a specific site
         or area to be protected.
         The interior walls of the energy absorbing device are preferably formed from a
          substantially inflexible material which is the same or similar to that as those used in
          the shell. This is not however intended to be limiting and the internal walls may be
          formed from a different material to that of the external walls.
          It is envisaged the-further space formed by the interior walls may have a variety of
          different cross-sectional shapes.
                                                       7

WO 2010/117283                                                           PCT/NZ2010/000064
         In preferred embodiments the further space may have a substantially circular or
         octagonal cross-sectional shape. However, it should be appreciated that the
         interior walls may form further spaces with other cross-sectional shapes such as
         triangular, square or hexagonal, without departing from the scope of the present
         invention.
         In variations of the apparatus of the present invention it is envisioned that the shell
         may contain a plurality of further spaces created by internal walls.
         In an embodiment where the device includes more than one further space, it is
         preferable that the further spaces defined by interior walls are orientated to be
         aligned parallel with respect to each other within the internal area of the shell.
         In one embodiment of the invention the exterior and interior walls may be integrally
         formed. Alternatively, in other variations the exterior walls may be formed
         separately and filled with circular or octagonal tubing to create the interior walls.
         The energy absorbing device of the present invention, in addition to being used on
         its own, may also be used as an individual energy absorbing module that may be
         inserted within a further safety device to increase the efficiency of a barrier or
         crash cushion.
         According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a housing
          adapted for surrounding stationary objects wherein said housing includes a number
          of energy absorbing devices substantially as described above.. For example, the
          stationary object may be a tree or pole. The housing may be configured as a
          module which can connect to one or more other modules to provide an impact
          cushion which can surround the stationary object. In such embodiments the
          housing may include a connecting portion for attaching to adjacent modules.
                                                     8

WO 2010/117283                                                           PCT/NZ2010/000064
          Alternatively, the shell of may be configured to function as a module without the
          need for a separate housing. For example, the shell may have a connecting
          portion which attaches to an adjacent module such that a number of modules may
          be arranged and fastened together without the need for additional surrounding
          housing. In this embodiment the modules may be configured for attachment such
          that the individual modules can be linked together in a row or stacked to form a
          larger energy absorbing device. The modules may be attached together by means
          of cables, wires, hooks or click-fit arrangements as would be understood be a
          person skilled in the art.
          According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
          surrounding a stationary object the method comprising connecting two or more:
                  -      housings substantially as described above; or
                  -      energy absorbing devices substantially as described above;
          so as to surround the stationary object.
          According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
          absorbing energy from a moving object upon impact wherein the method
          comprises the step of: utilising at least two types of energy absorbing elements to
           absorb the energy of the impact in an energy absorbing apparatus; wherein the
          first type of element can absorb at least 50 - 90% of the energy absorbed by the
           apparatus and wherein the subsequent type(s) of element continues to absorb
           energy after the first type of energy absorbing element(s) has/have ceased
           operation and can no longer absorb energy.
           Preferred embodiments of the device of the present invention may have a number
           of advantages over the energy absorbing devices currently known. The interior
           walls of the device provide additional energy absorption to the housing when
                                                      9

WO 2010/117283                                                          PCT/NZ2010/000064
         absorbing an impact. After an initial impact which may destroy the housing of the
         device, the interior walls and/or further space provide energy absorbing zones,
         decreasing the amount of energy needing to be reabsorbed by the impacting
         vehicle or similar.
          In the preferred embodiments the interior walls are substantially tubular in shape
         and can therefore effectively absorb impact energy from almost any direction,
          making the device suitable for use in a wide range of situations.
          Preferred embodiments of the device are also advantageous over other known
         energy absorption apparatus in that they can be used on both land and water.
         When manufactured from plastics material the device of the present invention can
         float and is therefore suitable for impact absorption in marine environments. For
          example, the present invention can be used as a boat racing crash barrier or as
          protection around stationary objects such as wharves.
          Preferred embodiments of the present invention are also economical, lightweight
          and relatively simple to produce and can easily be moved and replaced when
          necessary.
          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          Further aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following
          description which is given by way of example only and with reference to the
          accompanying drawings in which:
          Figure 1        shows a perspective view of the energy absorbing device of the
                          present invention;
          Figure 2        shows a perspective cross section of the energy absorbing device of
                          Figure 1;
                                                     10

WO 2010/117283                                                            PCT/NZ2010/000064
         Figure 3        shows a perspective view of modular safety device in accordance
                         with one preferred embodiment which includes a number of energy
                          absorbing devices as shown in Figure 1;
         Figure 4         shows a plan view of a modular safety device in accordance with
                          another preferred embodiment which includes a number of energy
                          absorbing devices shown in Figure 1; and
         Figure 5        shows a plan view of a housing which includes a number of energy
                         absorbing devices as shown in Figure 1 in accordance with a still
                         further preferred embodiment of the present invention.
         BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
         Figures 1 and 2 show an energy absorption device 100 in accordance with one
         preferred embodiment of the present invention. The energy absorption device 100
         is made from medium density polyethylene and has 6 external walls 101 - 106
         which form an outer rectangular shell 200. As best seen in Figure 2 the shell 200
         defines a first internal area 210 that acts as an air cushion when the device 100 is
         sealed on all sides as shown in Figure 1.
         The first internal area 210 is further defined by interior walls 300. As shown in
         Figures 1 and 2, interior walls 300 span across internal area 210 of the shell,
         running parallel between opposing sides of the shell 200. Interior walls 300 are
         octagonal in shape and define a space 310 within interior walls 300. In this
         embodiment there are four interior walls 300 shown, however it is envisioned that
         there may be any number of interior walls 300 located within shell 200.
          In use, device 100 may be positioned to receive an impact from direction X, Y or Z
         or any angle in between as indicated by the axis in Figure 1. On impact, shell 200
         contains air which is compressed by the initial energy of impact and this absorbs
                                                     11-

WO 2010/117283                                                           PCT/NZ2010/000064
         the majority of the impact energy then when the shell ruptures the remaining
         impact energy is transferred to (i.e. absorbed by) interior walls 300 which get
         crushed, absorbing more energy from the impact. As would be appreciated by a
         person skilled in the art, the more interior walls 300 positioned within housing 200
         the more surfaces will be available for absorbing impact energy.
         The devices 100 of the present invention may also be used as modules arranged
         within a further housing or arranged together to form a larger energy absorbing
         device.
          Figure 3 shows a modular safety device generally indicated by arrow 500. The
          modular safety device 500 has four energy absorbing devices 501 - 504 which are
          connected by cables 505 and 506 which pass through apertures (not shown) in the
          energy absorbing devices 501 - 504. The modular safety device 500 in use can be
          wrapped around an object (not shown).
          For example the modular safety device 500 can have multiple energy absorbing
          elements and can be wrapped around a power pole (not shown) one or more times
          to create one or more protective layers about the pole.
          Although not shown it should be appreciated that the energy absorbing elements
          500 can also be orientated so as to absorb the energy of an impact along the
           longitudinal axis of the device 500.
           Figure 4 shows a modular safety device 600 which has number of modular energy
           absorbing devices 601 which surround the trunk of a tree 602. The energy
           absorbing devices 601 have apertures in the form of an integrally moulded tube
           (not shown) which passes from side to side to enable connection of adjacent
           energy absorbing devices 601. The energy absorbing devices 601 are connected
           via a cable 603 which is threaded through adjacent energy absorbing devices
                                                      12

WO 2010/117283                                                           PCT/NZ2010/000064
        which are then wrapped around a tree and the two cable ends are clamped
        together so as to form a ring.
         Figure 5 shows an alternate modular safety device 700. The modular safety device
         700 has a first housing 701 connected via bolts (not shown) to a second housing
         702. The modular safety device 700 surrounds a power pole 703. The first housing
         701 has had the top of the housing removed in order to show the energy absorbing
         devices 704 which are located therein. As can be seen the centrally located energy
         absorbing device of which only the top one of a stack of two can be seen is
         horizontally orientated (i.e. lying down). By way of contrast the side energy
         absorbing devices on either side of the centrally positioned stack of devices are
         orientated vertically (i.e. standing up).
         Aspects of the present invention have been described by way of example only and
         it should be appreciated that modifications and additions may be made thereto
         without departing from the scope of the appended claims.
                                                     13

WHAT WE CLAIM IS:
1.   A method of absorbing energy from a moving object upon impact wherein
     the method comprises the steps of:
              utilizing at least two types of energy absorbing elements, to absorb at
     least some of the energy of the impact, in an energy absorbing apparatus,
              wherein a first type of element absorbs the majority of the energy
     absorbed by a first compression step of a compressing fluid contained within
     a first sealed volume, and dissipated said majority of the energy absorbed by
     the apparatus, the first type of energy absorbing element is in the form of a
     shell comprising at least one external wall;
              wherein at least one subsequent type of energy absorbing element
     continues to absorb energy after the first type of element has ceased
     operation and can no longer absorb energy via a second compression step
     of compressing said subsequent energy absorbing element(s).
2.   The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 3, wherein the fluid is a
     gas.
3.   The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 3, wherein the fluid is
     air.
4.   The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 3, wherein the first type
     of element absorbs energy until the first sealed volume becomes no longer
     sealed.
5.   The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first type
     of element is in the form of a shell defining the first sealed volume, and the
     first type of element absorbs energy, at least in part, by compression of the
     fluid within the shell, until the shell ruptures.
6.   The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 5, wherein the
     subsequent types of elements include a second type of energy absorbing
     element that absorbs energy, at least in part, by being crushed.
                                            14

7.  The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 6, wherein the
    second type of element is in the form of one or more interior walls within
    the energy absorbing apparatus, further defining the shell.
8.  The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 7, wherein the interior
    walls are substantially tubular in shape and integrally formed with the shell,
    and wherein the interior walls extend across the shell along a major
    dimension of the shell.
9.  The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the
    subsequent types of elements include a third type of energy absorbing
    element in the form of a second sealed volume containing a fluid within the
    interior walls, and wherein the third type of energy absorbing element absorbs
    energy at least in part by compression of the fluid in the second sealed
    volume, followed by crushing of the interior walls.
10. The method of absorbing energy as claimed in claim 1, wherein prior to
    the first type of element ceasing operation, the first type of energy
    absorbing element absorbs between 50%-90% of the energy absorbed by
    the apparatus.
11. An energy absorbing apparatus for absorbing energy from a moving object
    upon impact, comprising:
             at least two types of energy absorbing elements configured to
    absorb at least some of the energy of the impact;
             wherein a first type of element is in the form of a shell comprising at
    least one external wall and absorbs the majority of the energy absorbed by
    the apparatus by compression of a fluid contained within a first sealed
    volume, and
             wherein subsequent types of energy absorbing elements continue to
    absorb energy after the first type of element has ceased operation and can
    no longer absorb energy.
12. A housing adapted for surrounding stationary objects, said housing including
    a number of energy absorbing devices as claimed in claim 11.
                                         15

13.  A method of surrounding a stationary object, the method comprising
     connecting two or more:
     -       housings as claimed in claim 12; or
     -       energy absorbing apparatus as claimed in claim 11.
14.  An energy absorbing apparatus for absorbing energy from a moving object
     upon impact, comprising:
             at least two types of energy absorbing elements configured to absorb
     at least some of the energy of the impact
             wherein a first type of energy absorbing element is formed by one or
     more walls of the apparatus, forming an enclosed shell around a subsequent
     type of energy absorbing element, and absorbs and dissipates the majority
     of the energy absorbed by the apparatus,
             wherein the subsequent type of energy absorbing element is formed
     by at least one of the same one or more walls that form the first type
     of energy absorbing element;
             wherein the subsequent type of energy absorbing element
     continues to absorb energy after the first energy absorbing element has
     ceased operation and can no longer absorb energy.
 15. The energy absorbing apparatus of claim 14, wherein the enclosed shell
     forms a sealed volume configured to absorb energy by compression of a fluid
     within the sealed volume.
 16. The energy absorbing apparatus of claim 15, wherein the subsequent type of
     energy absorbing element comprises one or more deformable portions
     formed by the enclosed shell and configured to absorb energy following
     rupture of the enclosed shell.
 17. The energy absorbing apparatus of claim 16, wherein the one or more
     deformable portions comprise one or more tubes.
                                         16

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
