   Abstract:
            A method for transmitting individualized real-time work assignments to a
   plurality of employees located remotely from a broadcast network. An analysis unit
   compares user profiles, dynamic locations stored in the communicator location
 5 database, fixed locations, and job assignments entered into the analysis unit. A data
   set of at least one individualized work assignment is generated and the individualized
   work assignment is transmitted to the employee via the employee's communicator
   device. A method of generating individualized real-time weather and environmental
   data including the steps of receiving a plurality of user profiles with at least two of the
10 user profiles identifying communicator devices, designated locations and
   identifications of pre-determined weather and environmental sensors associated with
   the designated locations, analyzing a weather and environmental information database
   as well as sensor data from the pre-determined weather and environmental sensors to
   generate individualized weather output signals and transmitting the weather and
15 environmental output signals to communicator devices identified in the user profiles.

  bI
                              INTERACTIVE ADVISORY SYSTEM
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [00011 Not applicable.
                    STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED
                                RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT
 [0002] Not applicable.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] During recent years, the demand for detailed information, such as for example weather
information, has risen sharply. Personal computers and communication devices have increased
the demand for more information because of their power to gather, manipulate, transmit and
receive data. As a result, specialized information and value-added services are in great
demand. End users no longer desire to gather, manipulate and evaluate raw data. For
instance, nowhere is this condition more apparent than with weather services across North
America.
[0004] Years ago, radio and television broadcasters recognized an increasing demand for
weather information from their audience, and thus increased the number of on-air weather
segments as a means for increasing market ranking. Today, the demand for specific content
in weather information has exceeded the ability of broadcasters to meet this demand. Virtually
every facet of business and personal activities are continually influenced by the weather, good
or bad.
[00051 In the United States as in most countries, a governmental agency (the National Weather
Service in the United States), has the primary responsibility of generating weather products for
the general public. These products, such as advisories, statements, and forecasts are
generated and made available to third parties, such as broadcasters, newspapers, intemet web
sites, paging companies and others who, in turn, distribute them to the public. However, this
chain of data custody is one way.
[0006] Today's lifestyles are fast-paced and sophisticated. Requests for detailed weather
information for specific applications outnumber the governments' ability to process them.
However, adhering to their mandated responsibility, the National Weather Service generates
the general products for public consumption twice daily. This condition forces the public to
interpret general and outdated advisories to meet their needs. Often, this interpretation is made
erroneously. Even worse, these products are usually regional or national in scope, and may
not apply to a particular location where various local activities are underway.
[00071 By way of example, weather warnings are broadcast by radio stations across the United
States. These warnings identify certain weather impacts within a specified area. In most

                                                  2
cases, the warning area includes one or more counties, covering dozens to hundreds of square
miles. Most often, these threats (such as severe thunderstorms, tornadoes, etc.), only impact
a very small zone within the warning area. These threats also move rapidly. As impacts
approach specific zones, they are in fact, moving away from other zones, inside the total
warning area. Essentially, the existing reporting system is insufficient to specifically identify and
adequately warn of personal risk. Furthermore, if the threat is imminent, the existing system
cannot and does not provide preventive measures for each user near or at the threat. Thus,
by default, distant or unaffected users are placed "on alert" unnecessarily when the threat may
be moving away from their location.
100081 Another common example further clarifies the problem. A family, excited to attend the
championship softball game this upcoming weekend, closely monitors the local weather
forecast. All week-long the forecast has advised fair to partly cloudy weather for game day.
Early on game day, the forecast changes to partly cloudy, with a thirty percent chance for late
afternoon showers. The family decides to attend the game, believing that the chances for rain
are below their perceived risk level. Unknown to the family at midday, some clusters of showers
are intensifying, and will place dangerous lightning over the game field. While the morning
weather report was not completely inaccurate, the participants and spectators are exposed to
risk. If later asked, it is likely the family members did not hear or remember the weather
forecast. They also failed to link their limited knowledge of the weather to their own needs and
risk exposure. They did not monitor changing weather events. Most likely, they had no ability
to monitor developing risk at the game. Clearly, these people were forced to interpret outdated,
limited information as applied to their specific application.
[00091 Therefore, a need exists for a system to automatically and continuously provide
consumer customized reports, advisories, alerts, forecasts and warnings relevant to a
consumer-defined level of need or dynamic spatial location. It is to such a system that the
present invention is directed.
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [00101 The present disclosure relates to an interactive advisory system and method of delivering
 individualized information. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to a broadcast
network for selectively transmitting individualized output signals to remote communicator
 devices. The broadcast network includes a user input database, a communicator location
database, an analysis unit and a communication network.
 [00111 The user input database contains user-defined parameters and each of the user-defined
parameters desirably includes a spatial range identifier and a user profile. The user profile in
 each of the user-defined parameters at least identifies a communicator device associated with

                                                 3
  a particular user. The communicator location database contains real-time data indicative
  of the spatial locations of the communicator devices. In one preferred version of the
 present invention, the communicator location database is automatically and/or
  continuously updated by the communicator devices.
  [0012] The information database contains data, such as real-time weather data for at least
 the spatial locations contained in the communicator location database. The term "data"
 describes a wide variety of products including, but not limited to, past and current
 conditions of weather events, textual products, graphic products, and the like. The
 analysis unit receives the real-time data from the information database, and automatically
 and continuously compares the spatial range identifier included in the user-defined
 parameters and the spatial locations of the corresponding communicator devices
 contained in the communicator location database with the real-time data and, upon
 demand of the user, or even continuously, generates an individualized output signal such
 as weather information within the spatial range identified by the spatial range identifier
 for the user-defined parameters. As new locations are defined by the communicator
 location database, the information database is automatically updated in realtime.
 [0013] The communication network transmits each individualized output signal to the
 particular communicator device defined in the user profile included in the user-defined
 parameter corresponding with the real-time data and prediction of events. Thus, a user
 can receive information in real-time specific to the user's immediate spatial location
 regardless of whether or not the user's location remains fixed or dynamic throughout
 time.
 [00141 The specification discloses a method for transmitting individualized real-time
 work assignments to a plurality of employees located remotely from a broadcast network.
 The method may include the steps of inputting employee user-profile criteria into an
analysis unit; inputting work assignment criteria into the analysis unit; matching the
employee user-profile criteria with the work assignment criteria to generate a data set of
at least one individualized work assignment; and transmitting the individualized work
assignment to an employee based upon the matching of the work assignment criteria with
the employee user-profile.
 [0015] The employee user-profile criteria may be input into an employer communicator
device. The employer communicator device may be selected from the group consisting of
a computer, a personal digital assistant, a cellular phone, and a combination personal
digital assistant/cellular phone. The data set may include at least two of the employee
user-profile criteria and the work assignment criteria, the method further including the
step of an employer assigning the work assignment to the employee based upon the
results matching the employee user-profile criteria with the work assignment criteria.
[00161 The data set may include at least two of the employee user-profile criteria and the
work assignment criteria, the method further including the step of the analysis unit
assigning the work assignment to the employee based upon the results of matching the
employee user-profile criteria with the work assignment criteria. The individualized work

                                                 3A
 assignment may be transmitted to the employee via an employee communicator device.
 The employee communicator device may be selected from the group consisting of a personal
 digital assistant, a cellular phone, a combination personal digital assistant/cellular phone, and
a pager.
 [0017] The disclosure provides a method of generating individualized real-time weather and
environmental data. The method may include the steps of receiving a plurality of user profiles
with at least two of the user profiles identifying communicator devices, designated locations
and identifications of predetermined weather and environmental sensors associated with the
designated locations; analyzing a weather and environmental information database as well as
sensor data from the pre-determined weather           and environmental      sensors to generate
individualized weather and environmental output signals; and transmitting the weather and
environmental output signals to communicator devices identified in the user profiles.
[0018] The step of receiving the plurality of user profiles may be defined further as receiving
a spatial range identifier and associating the spatial range identifier with one of the pre
determined weather and environmental sensors. The step of receiving the plurality of user
profiles may be defined further as receiving an environmental identifier indicative of the type
of weather and environmental information to be monitored by the predetermined weather and
environmental sensors.
[001 8a] Other advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent to those
skilled in the art when the following detailed description is read in view of the attached
drawings and appended claims.
[001 8b] In one aspect, the invention provides a method of generating real-time weather and
environmental information, the method comprising: receiving a user profile, the user profile
identifying a communicator device associated with a user; receiving, by an analysis unit,
environmental condition information from environmental sensors mounted in various fixed
locations along a roadway or railway; analyzing, by the analysis unit, the environmental
condition information received from the sensors; receiving a real-time spatial location of the
communicator device determined using global positioning satellite technology or a mobile
phone network; determining a spatial range of at least one of the weather or environmental
sensors; determining if the communicator device is within the spatial range of the at least one

                                               3B
weather or environmental sensor; and outputting the environmental condition information
received from the at least one weather or environmental sensor to a communication network
for transmittal to the communicator device in response to a determination that the
communicator device within the spatial range of the at least one weather or environmental
sensor.
        [0018c] In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising: receiving a
user profile, the user profile identifying a communicator device associated with a user;
receiving, by a weather analysis unit, weather or environmental condition information from
weather and environmental sensors mounted in various fixed locations along a roadway or
railway; analyzing, by the weather analysis unit, the weather or environmental condition data
received from the sensors; receiving a real-time spatial location of the communicator device
determined using global positioning satellite technology or a mobile phone network;
determining if the communicator device is in proximity to the location of one or more of the
sensors; and outputting the weather or environmental condition information received from the
one or more weather or environmental sensors in proximity to the communicator device to a
communication      network for transmittal the communicator device in response to a
determination that the communicator device is in proximity to the one or more weather or
environmental sensors.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS
                                     OF THE DRAWINGS
[001 8d] FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an interactive weather advisory system constructed in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0018d] FIG. 2 is a coordinate system illustrating a spatial location identifier and a spatial
range identifier utilized by versions of embodiments of the present invention.
[001 8f] FIG. 3 is a block diagram of an interactive advisory system constructed in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0018g] FIG. 4 is a block diagram of an interactive weather advisory system constructed in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION

                                                    4
   [0019] Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to FIG. I shown therein in block
  diagram form, is one embodiment of the invention in the form of an interactive weather advisory
  system constructed in accordance with the present invention. The weather advisory system 8
  is provided with a broadcast network 10 for selectively transmitting individualized weather output
  signals to remote communicator devices 11. The broadcast network 10 -includes a weather
  analysis unit 12, a user input database 14, a communicator location database 16, and a
 communication network 20. The weather analysis unit 12 receives real-time weather data from
 a weather information database 21. The weather information database 21 can be located at
 the broadcast network 10, or remotely from the broadcast network 10. The weather analysis
 unit 12, the user input database 14, the communicator location database 16, the weather
 information database 21, and the communication network 20, interrelate and communicate via
 signal paths 22, 24, 26, 28, 30 and 32.
 (0020] The user input database 14 permits a plurality of users to input data corresponding to
 the weather reports, advisories orforecasts such that individualized weather reports, advisories
 or prediction of events can be transmitted to each individual user. The user input database 14
 contains data representative of at least one user-defined parameter correlated to each one of
 a plurality of users.      In one version of the present invention, each of the user-defined
 parameters includes various information related to weather output signals, such as a spatial
 range identifier, a user profile, one or more weather content identifiers for identifying particular
 weather patterns, one or more time identifiers for identifying particular times or time intervals
that a user may desire a weather product, a spatial location fixed or dynamic code, and a spatial
 location identifier for identifying particular spatial locations of interest to the user if the spatial
location fixed or dynamic code indicates that the spatial location is to be fixed. The user profile
in each of the user-defined parameters includes at least a user identifier code for identifying a
 particular communicator device 11 associated with a particular user.
[0021] For instance, the user identifier code could be a mobile telephone number identifying
one of the communicator devices 11, which in this instance could be a mobile telephone or a
pager, for example. The weather content identifier could be a computer code to identify one
or a variety of weather conditions or events such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, hail storms,
lightning storms, showers, snow storms, blizzards, high winds, winds aloft, rapidly rising or
rapidly falling barometric pressure or other such weather patterns or conditions. The time
identifier desirably could be a computer code for identifying the particular time, times, or time
intervals the user desires the interactive weather advisory system 8 to communicate weather
data to the user or to monitor the real-time weather data for a particular time and/or date. The
spatial location identifier 26 could be a computer code identifying a particular predetermined

                                                   5
 spatial location such as, byway of example but not limitation, a longitude and latitude anywhere
 in the world, a town, a county, a township, address, zip code, altitude and combinations thereof.
 [00221 As discussed above, the spatial location identifier identifies a particular spatial location
 anywhere in the world and/or altitude above sea level. The spatial range identifier identifies a
 particular spatial range surrounding the spatial location identifier. Each of the users can select
 the spatial location identifier and the spatial range identifier so as to receive weather forecasts
 and/or weather advisories or any other weather information forthe spatial location identified by
the spatial location identifier, and within the spatial range identified by the spatial range
 identifier.
 [00231 For example, referring to FIG. 2, shown therein is a coordinate system illustrating four
spatial location identifiers and four spatial range identifiers selected by different users of the
present invention. That is, one of the users selects the spatial location identifier (X1, Y1, Zi),
and the spatial range identifier (RI). Another one of the users selects the spatial location
identifier (X2, Y2, Z2), and the spatial range identifier (R2).
[0024] The user who selected the spatial location identifier (XI, Y1, Z1) and the spatial range
identifier RI will receive weather products and advisories concerning the spatial range identified
by the spatial location identifier (X1, Y1, ZI) and the spatial range identifier R1, as predefined
in his user input database. The user who selected the spatial location identifier (X2, Y2, Z2)
and the spatial range identifier R2 will receive weather products and advisories concerning the
spatial range identified by the spatial location identifier (X2, Y2, Z2) and the spatial range
identifier R2, and as predefined in the user input database 14. Likewise, the users who
selected the spatial location identifiers (X3, Y3, Z3) and (X4, Y4, Z4) and the spatial range
identifiers R3 and R4 will receive weather products and advisories concerning the spatial range
identified by the spatial location identifiers (X3, Y3, Z3), (X4, Y4, Z4) and the spatial range
identifier R3, R4, and as predefined in the user input database 14.
[0025] The magnitudes of the spatial range identifiers R1, R2, R3 and R4 can be different or
the same. In addition, the magnitudes of the spatial range identifiers R1, R2, R3 and R4 can
vary widely and are desirably selected by the users.
[0026] Particular users can input the user-defined parameters into the user input database 14
via any suitable method. For example, the user input database 14 is desirably configured to
acquire its data from a variety of optional sources preferably chosen by the user, such as
verbally through a telephone customer service network, a mobile phone network equipped with
wireless application protocol technology, email, a personal digital assistant, a laptop computer,
or an interactive web site. Furthermore, users could mail the user-defined parameters to the
broadcast network 10, and an individual at the broadcast network 10 could input the user-

                                                     6
 defined parameters directly into the userinput database 14 via a keyboard or other similar input
 device. In one embodiment, the user inputs the selected information into the user input
 database 14 via the user's communicator device 11.
 [00271 The weather information database 21 contains real-time weather data for at least the
 spatial locations contained in the communicator location database 16 and the spatial locations
 identified by the spatial location identifier in the user input database 14. The weather analysis
unit 12 generates predictions of all weather events based on the real-time weather data. The
weather information database 21 desirably receives its real-time weather data from at least one
of a plurality of possible resources such as, by way of example but not limitation, government
weather information resources, privately operated weather information resources, and other
various meteorological resources. The real-time weather data could also be either input directly
at the physical location of the weather information database 21 or input via a mobile phone
network, a mobile phone network with wireless application protocol, the Interret, aircraft
communication systems, email, a personal digital assistant, a laptop computer, regular
computer, or other wireless devices.
[0028] The communicator location database 16 is an optional feature of the present invention,
and is enabled via the signal path 22 when the user requests real-time weather advisories or
prediction of events at the dynamic spatial location of the user's communicator device 11. The
communicator location database 16 is continuously updated such that the communicator
location database 16 contains real-time data indicative of the spatial locations of the
communicator devices 11. In one embodiment, the user identifier code In the user's profile is
transmitted to the communicator location database 16 via the signal path 22. The
communicator location database 16 desirably receives data from the communicator devices 11
identified by the user identifier codes via at least one of a variety of possible resources such as
a mobile phone network, a mobile phone network equipped with the wireless application
protocol technology, global positioning satellite technology, the Internet, loran technology, radar
technology, transponder technology or any other type of technology capable of tracking the
spatial location of a communicator device 11             and communicating the location of such
communicator device 11 to the communicator location database 16 of the broadcast network
10. Preferably, the communicator location database 16 is continuously and automatically
updated as to the location of each of the communicator devices 11, such as by the wireless
application protocol technology.
[0029] The communication network 20 can be, by way of example but not limitation, a mobile
phone network, a mobile phone network with wireless application protocol technology, the
Internet, a facsimile network, a satellite network (one or two-way), a RF radio network, or any

                                                  7
 other means of transmitting information from a source to an end user.
 [0030] The communicator devices 11 can be bidirectional or unidirectional communicator
 devices. The communicator devices 11 can be, byway of example but not limitation, a portable
 device, such as a mobile telephone, a smart phone, a pager, a laptop computer or a personal
 digital assistant, or any other electronic device capable of receiving weather information data.
 Furthermore, the communicator device 11 can be incorporated into an object that is utilized or
 accessible by the user, such as a helmet, an automobile, or an airplane, for example. While
 only three communicator devices. 11 are represented in FIG. 1 for purposes of illustration, the
 interactive weather advisory system 8 contemplates the utilization of a large number of
 communicator devices 11.
 [0031] The weather analysis unit 12 receives the data in the user input database 14, the
 communicator location database 16, and the weather information database 21 from the signal
 paths 24, 26, and 28. The weather analysis unit 12 can be, by way of example but not
 limitation, a computer desirably programmed to automatically and continuously compare the
data in the user input database 14, communicator location database 16, and weather
 information database 21 so as to generate an individualized weather output signal including
weather information within the spatial range identified by the spatial range identifier for each
 user-defined parameter in the user input database 14. The weather output signals are
transmitted to the communication network 20 via the signal path 32.
[00321 The weather analysis unit 12 gathers the real-time weather data from the weather
information database 21. The term "real-time weather data", as used herein, refers to weather
data which is continually updated so as to indicate current or near current information. In some
instances, the "real-time weather data" may be delayed by relatively small increments of five
minutes, 15 minutes, or 30 minutes, for example. In other instances, the "real-time weather
data" can be provided with substantially no delay.. It is expected that the increments will
become smaller as communication networks and weather related technology become faster.
[0033] The weather analysis unit 12 generates predictions of all weather related events and
compares past and current events contained in the weather information database 21 (such as
future position, strength, trajectory, etc.), to construct a four-dimensional database. Three
dimensions of the database define a physical location on or above the earth's surface (the
spatial location identifier (X1, Y1, Z1). The fourth dimension is time - past, present or future
(identified as TI, T2, T3, T4). By employing high speed computer processors in real-time, the
weather analysis unit 12 compares all events (past, current and predicted), at specific positions
(X1, Y1, Z1, T1) with identical user supplied data (the user input database - X1, Y1, Z1, R1,
TI), and identifies any matches (weather output signals) to the user through the communication

 network 20 and communication devices 11.
 [0034] The communication network 20 receives the weather output signals and the user
 identification codes via the signal paths 32 and 30. In response thereto, the communication
 network 20 transmits the individualized weather output signals to the communicator devices 11
 associated with the user identification codes via the signal paths 34a, 34b and 34c, such that
 each user receives the individualized weather information that was requested.
 [0035] The signal paths 34a, 34b and 34c refer to any suitable communication link which
 permits electronic communications. For example, the signal paths 34a, 34b and 34c can be
 point-to-point shared and dedicated communications, infra red links, microwave links, telephone
 links, CATV links, satellite and radio links and fiber optic links.
 [0036] Various combinations of weather information can be incorporated into the user input
 database 14 so as to provide the user with selected and specific weather information. For
example, a user traveling in his automobile may wish to be informed by the interactive weather
advisory system 8 concerning all hailstorms for an area within a 2.5 mile radius of his vehicle
as he is traveling from his point of origin to his destination. The user, for example, through his
smart phone (communicator device 11) in his vehicle working in conjunction with a mobile
phone network (communication network 20) with wireless application protocol, inputs selected
information into the user input database 14; namely, the user's smart phone number (user
identifier code), hail (weather content identifier), 2.5 mile radius (spatial range identifier 24) and
spatial location dynamic (spatial location of the user's smart phone is then automatically and
continuously monitored), and the like.
[0037] The interactive weather advisory system 8 then monitors weather information and
predictions of events in the weather analysis unit 12, and transmits the individualized weather
output signal to the user's smart phone if a hailstorm is detected or is highly likely to form within
a 2.5 mile radius of the vehicle along the vehicle's path of travel, for the duration of travel.
[0038] The individualized weather output signal can be an audio and/or video data signal. For
example, the individualized weather output signal can be a .WAV file or other suitable file
containing an animated representation of a real or hypothetical individual speaking an
individualized message to the user. In the example given above, the individualized message
may be that the hailstorm is 2.5 miles ahead of the vehicle and thus, the user should consider
stopping for a short period of time so as to avoid the hailstorm. Alternatively, the individualized
message may be that the hailstorm is 2.5 miles ahead of the vehicle and thus, the user should
consider stopping until further notified by another individualized weather output signal so as to
avoid the hailstorm.     In other words, the weather analysis unit 12 may transmit another
individualized weather output signal to the user via the communication network 20 and the

                                                   9
 communicator devices 11 notifying the user that the weather condition identified by the weather
 content identifier has passed or is beyond the spatial location identified by the spatial range
 identifier.
  [0039] As another example, a user may desire to be informed of all real-time weather data and
 predictions of events within a particular spatial range of a particular dynamic spatial location.
 For instance, the user may be interested in whether his aircraft is at risk of icing as he flies from
 Oklahoma City to Tulsa, Oklahoma. To provide a suitable level of comfort and safety, the user
 may wish to be informed of icing conditions within 10 miles of the dynamic spatial location of
 his aircraft. The user, for example, through his smart phone or other suitable avionic device
 (communicator device 11) in his aircraft working in conjunction with a mobile phone network
 (communication network 20) with wireless application protocol, inputs selected information into
 the user input database 14; namely, the user's smart phone number (user identifier code), icing
 (weather content identifier), 10 mile radius (spatial range identifier 24), and the spatial location
 dynamic. The spatial location of the user's smart phone or other suitable avionic device is then
 automatically and continuously monitored as the aircraft traverses through time and space from
 (X1, Y1, ZI, TI) to (X4, Y4, Z4, T4). The interactive weather analysis unit 12 then monitors the
 real-time weather data in the weather information database 21 and the predicted events in the
weather analysis unit 12 so as to transmit the individualized weather output signal to the user's
smart phone or other avionic device identifying, if icing is detected or is highly likely to form
 relevant to a 10 mile radius of the aircraft.
 [0040] As yet another example, perhaps the user is only interested in a particular weather
 pattern at a particular fixed spatial location and within a particular spatial range irrespective of
the immediate locatiQn of the communicator device 11. To accomplish this user's request, the
broadcast network 10 does not utilize the communicator location database 16. The user inputs
selected information into the user input database 14, namely the user's phone number (user
identifier code), the code for the particular weather pattern in which the user is interested
 (weather content identifier), the spatial range around the spatial location in which the user is
interested (spatial range identifier), and the spatial location in which the user is interested
(spatial location identifier). The weather analysis unit 12 then monitors the real-time weather
data in the weather information database 21 and the predicted events in the weather analysis
unit 12 so as to transmit the individualized weather information concerning the weather pattern
in the spatial location and range requested by the user.
[0041] As a further example, perhaps the user is only interested in a particular weather
condition at the spatial location and within a particular spatial range at a particular time. The
user inputs selected information into the user input database 14, namely, the user's phone

                                                   10
  number (user identifier code), the code for the particular weather pattern in which the user is
  interested (weather content identifier), the spatial range around the spatial location in which the
 user is interested (spatial range identifier and the spatial location in which the user is interested
 spatial location identifier) and the time and date (time identifier) that the user to wishes to be
 informed of the weather conditions at the spatial location of interest. In response thereto, the
 weather analysis unit 12 monitors the real time weather data from the weather information
 database 21 for the spatial location and range identified by the spatial range identifier and
 spatial location identifier to determine the probability of the particular weather patten occurring
 at the time identified by the time identifier. The weather analysis unit 12 sends, via the signal
 path 32, the individualized weather output signal to the communication network 20. The
 communication network 20 receives the user identifier code, via signal path 30, from the user
 input database 14 and transmits the weather output signal received from the weather analysis
 unit 12 to the particular communicator device 11 identified by the user identifier code. Thus,
 the user receives the individualized weather information concerning the spatial location, spatial
 range and time requested by the user.
 [0042] The signal paths 22, 24, 26, 28, 30 and 32 can be logical and/or physical links between
 various software and/or hardware utilized to implement the present invention. It should be
 understood that each of the signal paths 22, 24, 26, 28, 30 and 32 are shown and described
 separately herein for the sole purpose of clearly illustrating the information and logic being
 communicated between the individual components of the present invention. In operation, the
 signal paths may not be separate signal paths but may be a single signal path. In addition, the
various information does not necessarily have to flow between the components of the present
invention in the manner shown in FIG. 1. For example, although FIG. I illustrates the user
identifier code being transmitted directly from the user input database 14 to the communication
network 20 via the signal path 30, the user identifier code can be communicated to the weather
analysis unit 12 via the signal path 24 and then communicated to the communication network
20 via the signal path 32.
[0043] It should be understood that although the user has been described as manually inputting
the user identifier code into the user input database 14, the user identifier code could be
automatically input into the user input database 14 by the communicator device 11.
[0044] Once the user-defined parameters have been input into the user input database 14, the
user-defined parameters can be analyzed by the weather analysis unit 12 along with weather
content identifiers for purposes of targeted marketing. A plurality of vendors 36 can be provided
access to the weather analysis unit 12 of the broadcast network 10 via a plurality of signal paths
38a, 38b, and 38c. The vendors 36 can independently input search information into the

  weather analysis unit 12 for com piling a data set of information which is useful to the vendors
  36.
  [0045] For example, a particular vendor 36a, who is in the business of selling snow blowers,
  may input a weather content identifier and time identifier into the weather analysis unit 12 so
  as to request a list of all spatial locations in the United States which are expected to receive at
  least 10 inches of snow in the next week. The weather analysis unit 12 would then compile the
  data set of all spatial locations in the United States which is expected to receive at least 10
  inches of snow in the next week based on at least one weather content identifier, the time
  identifier, and the real-time weather data stored in the weather information database 21. The
  data set is then output to the vendor 36a. Based on the data set, the vendor 36a may send
  advertisements or additional snow blowers to the areas identified in the data set.
  [0046] As another example, the particular vendor 36a, who is in the business of selling snow
  blowers, may input a weather content identifier and time identifier into the weather analysis unit
  12 so as to request a list of all user profiles identifying users who resided in spatial locations
 in the United States which are expected to receive at least 10 inches of snow in the next week.
 The weather analysis unit 12 would then compile the data set of all spatial locations in United
 States which is expected to receive at least 10 inches of snow in the next week based on at
 least one weather content identifier, the time identifier, the user profiles, -and the real-time
 weather data stored in the weather information database 21. The data set is then output to the
vendor 36a. Based on the data set, the vendor 36a may send advertisements to the users who
 are identified in the data set.
 [0047] It is envisioned that users will subscribe to the services provided by the broadcast
network 10. In this regard, the broadcast network 10 may or may not charge a service fee to
the users. In addition, some services may be provided by the broadcast network 10 for one
charge and additional services may be provided at an enhanced charge.
 [0048] To save processing power, the weather analysis unit 12 may periodically determine
which communicator devices 11 are turned off or out of range. Once this has been determined,
the weather analysis unit 12 would then not generate any individualized weather output signals
for the communicator devices 11 which are turned off or out of range. Once a particular one
of the communicator devices 11 is turned on or comes within range, the weather analysis unit
12 would then attempt to generate individualized weather output signals for such communicator
devices 11. In other words, to save processing power the weather analysis unit 12 may only
generate individualized weather output signals for the communicator devices 11 which are
active and within range.
[0049] The weather analysis unit 12 can be located at the broadcast network 10. Alternatively,

                                                  12
the weather analysis unit 12 can be separate from the remainder of the broadcast network 10
 and provided as a service to the broadcast network 10.
 [0050] In one preferred embodiment, rather than or in addition to the user providing user
defined parameters to the user input database 14, the user input database 14 is programmed
to provide a plurality of pre-defined user profiles with each of the pre-defined user profiles
directed to an activity designated by the user optionally including data and time of the activity.
The activity can be a business, personal or recreational need. For example, the business need
can be any work dependent upon or impacted by weather conditions to carry out a desired
activity, such as, but not limited to a rancher, contractor, farmer, or painter. The personal need
can be any activity positively or negatively impacted by weather conditions, such as but not
limited to, duties performed by a homeowner, such as mowing the lawn, painting the house,
trimming trees, or the like. The recreational need can be any recreational or other outdoor
activity dependent upon weather conditions, such as but not limited to golfing, cycling, boating,
hiking, fishing, or snow skiing.
[0051] In this case, the user selects or provides an activity or category to the user input
database 14. The user input database 14 retrieves pre-defined information concerning such
activity or category and stores or links such pre-defined information with the user's user profile.
The broadcast network 10 and/or weather analysis unit 12 then functions as set forth above to
provide weather alerts or other information concerning the information contained in the user's
user profile.
[0052] For example, a user may plan on golfing on a particular weekend during the hours of
9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. In this case, the user would select the pre-defined user profile for
"golfing", and the time frame of such planned activity. The location of planned activity can also
be entered into the user input database 14, or the location of the communicator device 11 can
be monitored by the communicator location database 16. The information contained in the pre
defined user pmfile is input into the user input database 14 and output weather alerts and
forecasts are then generated as discussed above.
[0053] The pre-defined user profiles are determined by member(s) of the broadcast network
10 and/or weather analysis unit 12, who identify weather conditions which are typically suitable
and/or adverse to each designated activity. Thus, for example, a pre-defined user profile for
"golfing" will contain data such as wind conditions, lightning, rain, temperature and other
conditions which will positively or negatively impact a golfing activity. The data in the pre
defined userprofile can be determined either before or after selection of the activity bythe user.
[0054] If desired by the user, the broadcast network 10 and/or weather analysis unit 12 can
assume the responsibility for generating the appropriate size of the spatial range identifier (as

                                                 1-3
in the case with the user profile, or pre-defined user profile). Alternatively, the spatial range
identifier can be determined by the nature of the weather event. In the latter case, member(s)
of the broadcast network 10 and/or weather analysis unit 12 would determine an "area of
concern" around each weather event that would or could occur and the communication network
20 would then send notifications to any user or communicator device 11 that May come into
contact with the area of concern.
[0055] For example, a tornado may be % mile wide and the broadcast network 10 and/or
weather analysis unit 12 would, based upon its experience, knowledge and/or abilities,
determine that the area of concern would be I Y miles wide and 8 miles long - moving
northeasterly. Any user contained within the user input database 14 would be notified, as
discussed above, if the user's location comes into contact with the "area of concern".
                                  OTHER USES OF THIS SYSTEM
[0056] Shown in FIGS. 3-4, are advisory systems 8a and 8b which can be used for delivering
other types of information or for more accurately predicting weather related events. The
advisory systems 8a and 8b are similar in construction and function to the weather advisory
system 8, except as described below. For purposes of clarity, similar components have been
provided with the same numeric prefix, and different alphabetic suffix.
[00571 The advisory system 8a is provided with a broadcast network I a. In one embodiment,
the broadcast network I0a is used for transmitting individualized real-time work assignments
from, for example, an employer to an employee. The broadcast network 1Oa is provided with
an analysis unit 12a, a communicator location database 16a, and communicator devices 11 a
and 11 b. The communicator device I a is referred to herein as an "employer communicator
device", and the communicator device 11 bis referred to herein as an "employee communicator
device." The communicator location database 16a is continuously updated to contain real-time
data indicative of the spatial locations of the communicator devices 11a and 11 b. in a similar
manner as described above, the analysis unit 12a makes comparisons between user profiles
(as represented by a box 80a), dynamic locations stored in the communicator location database
16a, fixed locations as represented by a box 82a and job assignments entered into the analysis
unit 12a from one of the employer communicator devices 11 a. The system 8a may be further
described as an employer system 40a and an employee system 42a to delineate the types of
information being conveyed within the system 8a.
[0058] For example, an employer uses the employer communicator device 11 a to input
employee information and/or criteria into an employee's user profile such as, for example, job
location, job schedule, skill set requirements, personalitytraits, and other criteria as represented
by a box 84a. Further, the employer inputs work or job assignment criteria into the analysis unit

                                                  14
  12a such as, for example, job location, job schedule, skill set requirements, personality traits,
  and other criteria.    The employer inputs the above criteria into one of the employer
 communicator devices 11 a which may be, for example, a computer, a personal digital assistant
 (PDA), a cellular phone, a combination cellular phone/PDA, or any other device which may then
 transmit the employee information and/or job assignment criteria to the analysis unit 12a. The
 analysis unit 12a may be, for example, a computer or a web server. The analysis unit 12a
 matches the employee user profile criteria with the work assignment criteria to generate a data
 set of at least one individualized work assignment.
 [0059] The individualized real-time work assignment is transmitted to one of the employee
 communicator devices 11 b based upon the matching of the work assignment criteria with the
 employee user-profile. The data set can be transmitted to the employer communicator device
 11a such that the employer can review the data set to assign the work assignment to a
 particular one of the employees, or alternatively, the analysis unit 12a can automatically assign
 the work assignment to a particular one of the employees and thereby transmit the work
 assignment to the employee's communicator device I 1b without any intervention by the
 employer. The employee's communicator device 1lb may be, for example, a PDA, a cellular
 phone, a combination cellular phone/PDA, a pager, or any other device in which the analysis
 unit 12a or the employer may communicate information to the employee.
 [0060] The user profile for each of the employees includes information relating to the
employee's traits such as, for example, personality, sales style, dress, skill set, location,
schedule, or any other quality or trait relating to the particular employee. Further, the user
profile is preferably accessible by both the employer communicator device Ila and the
employee communicator device 1lb. However, it is preferred that the employer communicator
device 11 a have access to the entire user profile, while the employee communicator device 11 b
only have access to a subset of the user profile. Thus, the user profile accessible by the
employer system 40a may differ from the user profile accessible by the employee system 42a.
[0061] For example, the user profile accessible by the employer system 40a may include traits
related to a particular employee that remain hidden or unknown to the employee. For instance,
the employee may have access to information stored in his user profile such as location,
schedule, skill set, and other criteria as represented by a box 86a and may be provided access
to his user-profile to update information as needed. In addition to the above-mentioned
employee-accessible information, the employer may have access to the employee user profile
to input and access employee traits such as personality, sales style, dress, and skill set and
may be provided access to update this information as needed.
[0062] In another embodiment, the system 8a is used to deliver goods based upon real-time

                                                15
  location of a carrier of the goods.     More specifically, the system 8a can be used to
  accommodate purchasers of products ordered online in order to quickly and efficiently deliver
 goods to the purchaser's specified location.
  [0063] The analysis unit 12a is loaded with employee user profiles and locations. The analysis
 unit 12a identifies delivery persons (employees) located near a purchaser's location. Part of
 the employee's user profile can include an inventory of the goods on the employee's delivery
 truck. The employee need not know what inventory is located on his delivery truck, but only his
 delivery destination.
 [00641 For example, a purchaser may order fresh produce online. The employer may input the
 purchaser's order (work assignment) into the employer communicator device 11 a (which inputs
 the work assignment into the analysis unit 12a) so that the analysis unit 12a may determine
 which delivery person may efficiently deliver the specified goods to the purchaser. Also, by
 ordering online, the purchaser may send his order directly to the analysis unit 12a such that the
 analysis unit 12a automatically determines the appropriate delivery person to deliver goods to
 the purchaser and sends the assignment to the delivery person via the employee's
 communicator device 1Ib. Further, the employer updates the user profile to track and monitor
the precise inventory located on the employee's delivery truck, the inventory being delivered,
 and any inventory that may be stolen from the delivery truck.
 [0065] In yet another embodiment, the system 8a can be used for sending salesmen to the field
for soliciting new clients. For example, a company may receive an inquiry from a sales lead.
 Information about the lead is entered into the analysis unit 12a as a job assignment from the
employer communicator device 11 a. The analysis unit 12a then determines the appropriate
salesman to send to the lead based on information stored in the salesman's user-profile. The
salesman's user-profile may include information such as salesman location, personality traits,
dress style or other attributes used to determine which salesman may be appropriate to send
to the lead.
[0066] Shown in FIG. 4 is another advisory system 8b constructed in accordance with the
present invention. The advisory system 8b includes a broadcast network lOb. The broadcast
network 10b is similar in construction and function as the broadcast network 10 discussed
above, except that the broadcast network I Ob includes individualized sensor networks 48a
having weather and environmental sensors 48b which are specifically associated with
geographic areas associated with predetermined users.
[0067] For example, the weather and environmental data collection sites are tremendously
sparse in growing areas of the world, In the state of Iowa, only a minimal number of National
Weather Service data collection points exist. The scarcity of weather data hinders farmers

                                                16
 because a dense grid of weather data points is non-existent in orderfor farmers to make critical
 decisions about their crops. For example, how do you know what 160-acre tract of land to
 fertilize when soil temperature data, crop moisture data, and chance of precipitation data is
 unavailable?
 [0068] The sensor network 48a includes temporary or permanent data collection sensors 48b
 which may be installed, for example, on a 10 acre to 40 acre grid on the land of a subscriber
 or user of the system 8b. Each sensor 48b may have a unique spatial range associated with
 it such as, for example, a five mile or twenty mile radius. The spatial range associated with
 each sensor 48b can be selected by the user and specified as a result of the sensor 48b type
 and purpose as well as the density of the sensor network 48a. For example, if the user is
interested in soil moisture in order to schedule a fertilizer treatment, the spatial range
associated with the chosen sensor 48b may be set, for example, at 375 feet. In another
example, the user may be interested in soil temperature for placing seeds in the ground and
the desired spatial range associated with the chosen sensor 48b may be, for example, 2,000
feet. The user of the system Bb includes a user profile as discussed above, which is
supplemented with information regarding the sensors 48b associated with the user, e.g.,
installed on or near the user's land. The sensors 48b transmit site-specific, individualized
information to the weather analysis unit 12b so that more detailed information can be used by
the weather analysis unit 12b in generating the site-specific weather information for the user.
[0069] The sensors 48b can be any type of sensor which generates information usable for
forecasting weather, transmitting current weather conditions, transmitting current environmental
conditions, and/or forecasting environmental conditions. For example, the sensors 48b can be
used to sample or record such parameters as, but not limited to, air temperature, humidity,
precipitation, solar radiation, wind speed and direction, soil temperature, soil moisture, and/or
chemical constituents in the soil.
[0070] For example, a user may enter into his user profile types of information the user would
like the sensor network 48a to monitor such as, for example, temperature, moisture and/or soil
conditions. The weather analysis unit 12b receives the sensor data from the sensor network
48a and transmits information to the user via the user's communicator device 60b based on
information entered into his user profile. The user may also choose a specific sensor for
monitoring a specific area at any given time by modifying his user profile.
[0071] Further, the system 8b may be used to transmit real-time road condition information to
the weather analysis unit 12b to enhance the weather information transmitted to the users of
the system 8b. Although the sensors 48b can include their own power source such as a battery
or solar power source, the sensors 48b are preferably positioned on a device which has its own

                                                17
electrical power source. For example, a temporary or permanent sensor or sensors 48b may
be placed in various locations along a roadway such as on a vehicle, on or beside the
roadway, on a billboard, gas pump, cell phone tower or sign alongside the roadway or
railway, on a delivery vehicle(s) such as, for example, UPS and/or FedEx, or on the
streetlights. If the sensor 48b is placed on the roadway, it may be placed in the concrete or
asphalt. If placed beside the roadway, the sensor 48b may be placed in, for example, a ditch.
The sensor(s) 48b may detect, for example, moisture, temperature or any other weather or
environmental condition associated with the roadway, sign alongside the roadway, on
streetlights, or on delivery vehicles such as, for example, UPS and/or FedEx, or on railway
cars. Alternatively, the sensor(s) 48b may be used to detect traffic conditions or any other
condition associated with a particular roadway or railway.
[00721 For example, each sensor 48b may be placed 100 feet away from the nearest sensor
in order to create the sensor network 48a for determining conditions for a specified area along
a roadway or railway. Further, the sensor(s) 48b may be placed on various cellular phone
towers so that users of a particular cellular phone system associated with the tower may
access various conditions using the system 8b.
[0073] Each of the weather sensors 48a can also include a system such as a GPS system for
determining the current location of such weather sensor so that the current location of the
weather sensor is transmitted to the weather analysis unit 12b.
[0074] One skilled in the art will recognize many uses of the system 8b. For example, when
sensor data is collected by sensors 48a positioned on moving vehicles along roadways or
railways, the weather analysis unit 12b can transmit such weather information to
communicator devices 1lb located in close proximity to where the sensor data is being
collected. Thus, assuming that a Federal Express truck is located 5 miles from a subscriber,
the information collected from the sensor on the Federal Express truck can be transmitted to
the subscriber.
[0075] From the above description, it is clear that the present invention is well adapted to
carry out the objects and to attain the advantages mentioned herein as well as those inherent
in the invention. While presently preferred embodiments of the invention have been
described for purposes of this disclosure, it will be readily understood that numerous changes
may be made which will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and which are
accomplished within the spirit of the invention disclosed.
[0075a] Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
[0075b] The term 'comprise' and variants of the term such as 'comprises' or 'comprising' are
used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude any
other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation
of the term is required.

                                                 18
 CLAIMS
        1.      A method of generating real-time weather and environmental information, the
method comprising:
        receiving a user profile, the user profile identifying a communicator device associated
with a user;
        receiving,   by   an analysis     unit, environmental      condition information   from
environmental sensors mounted in various fixed locations along a roadway or railway;
        analyzing, by the analysis unit, the environmental condition information received
from the sensors;
        receiving a real-time spatial location of the communicator device determined using
global positioning satellite technology or a mobile phone network;
        determining a spatial range of at least one of the weather or environmental sensors;
        determining if the communicator device is within the spatial range of the at least one
weather or environmental sensor; and
        outputting the environmental condition information received from the at least one
weather or environmental sensor to a communication network for transmittal to the
communicator device in response to a determination that the communicator device is within
the spatial range of the at least one weather or environmental sensor.
         2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the spatial range of the at least one weather or
 environmental sensor is determined based on a type of sensor data monitored by the at least
 one weather or environmental sensor.
         3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the spatial range of the at least one weather or
 environmental sensor is determined based on a sensor type of the at least one weather or
 environmental sensor.
         4       The method of claim 1, wherein the spatial range of the at least one weather or
 environmental sensor is determined based on a distance between the plurality of weather or
 environmental sensors.
         5.      A method comprising:
         receiving a user profile, the user profile identifying a communicator device associated
 with a user;

                                               19
        receiving, by a weather analysis unit, weather or environmental condition information
from weather and environmental sensors mounted in various fixed locations along a roadway
or railway;
        analyzing, by the weather analysis unit, the weather or environmental condition data
received from the sensors;
        receiving a real-time spatial location of the communicator device determined using
global positioning satellite technology or a mobile phone network;
        determining if the communicator device is in proximity to the location of one or more
of the sensors; and
        outputting the weather or environmental condition information received from the one
or more weather or environmental sensors in proximity to the communicator device to a
communication     network     for transmittal the communicator     device in response    to a
determination that the communicator device is in proximity to the one or more weather or
environmental sensors.
        6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the weather or environmental sensors are
approximately equidistant.
        7.      The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of the weather or environmental
sensors is mounted on a billboard, a gas pump, a tower for cell phone communication, or a
structure supporting a light.
        8.      The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of the weather or environmental
sensors is mounted on a vehicle.
        9.      The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of the weather or environmental
sensors is mounted on a billboard.
         10.    The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of the weather or environmental
sensors is mounted on a gas pump at a gas station.
         11.    The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the weather or environmental
sensors is mounted on a tower for cell phone communication.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
