Abstract
The present invention relates to a running rail post ground fixing connector 30. The
connector fitting 30 includes an upper portion 32 configured to be receivable within a
bore 20c of a post 20. The connector fitting 30 further includes a lower portion 34
configured to be receivable within a bore 40a of a ground fixing 40. A zone of
weakness 36 is located in the connector fitting 30 between the upper portion 32 and
the lower portion 34.

                          aoo
                          A0vr.02
   3t.
                                 c
3a
       _____ _____
               _____ __ 4

                                              1
A running rail post ground fixing connector
Technical Field
[0001]        The present invention relates to a running rail post ground fixing
connector. Such connectors are arranged to establish a connection between a post
of the type arranged to support a running rail and a ground fixing.
Background of Invention
[0002]           Horse racing tracks have a guide rail extending around the inside of the
track to guide the horses and their riders around the track. This guide rail is
commonly called a running rail because in most instances the horses run against or
very closely adjacent to the rail.
[0003]        The running rail may adopt different profiles and configuration. However,
the running rail is typically supported by stanchions or posts that are secured at their
lower end in the ground by a pin or some other form of anchor, hereafter referred to
as a ground fixing. The running rail is secured to the stanchion or post so as to be
located at a height about level to a horse's body. The stanchions or posts are
usually inclined away from the running rail so that a horse running along the rail is
not at risk of contacting one of the posts or stanchions as they run along the rail. If
such contact was to occur, the horse would likely suffer a fall, possibly causing injury
to itself, its jockey, other horses and to other jockeys in the race field.
[0004]         Falls are not uncommon in the racing industry and many such falls result
in both the jockey and the horse being thrown to the ground. When this occurs,
there is a risk that the jockey and/or horse will strike the stanchions or posts which
support the running rail. As the stanchions or posts are rigidly secured in the
ground, contact with them by the jockey and/or the horse will result in an abrupt
change in their momentum and in most instances, severe impact injury to the jockey
and/or horse. To address this problem, posts have been developed that separate
from the ground fixing under a generally lateral type or sideways impact load (i.e. an
impact load extending generally in the direction of travel about the track) from a
falling jockey and/or horse.

                                            2
[0005]      Australian complete patent application 2012258382 by the present
applicant describes an alternative solution by providing a post for a running rail
wherein the lower end of the post is arranged for pivotal connection to a ground
engaging anchor. Australian complete patent application 2012258382 also
describes a connector fitting for connecting the upper end of a post to an opening
formed in a running rail. The described arrangement is configured so that the upper
end of the post can be quickly released from the running rail when the post is
accidentally struck by a jockey or rider and is then free to pivot towards the ground.
The post falls to the ground adopting a position wherein it cannot readily impale
either horse or jockey. The contents of Australian complete patent application
2012258382 are hereby fully incorporated herein by reference.
[0006]      It has been recognised that when a running rail post breaks away or is
otherwise disconnected from its associated ground fixing, there is a risk that the
exposed ground fixing or connector may cause injury to the jockey or horse. The
present invention seeks to provide a ground fixing connector for a running rail post
that alleviates this risk.
[0007]      The discussion of the background to the invention herein is included to
explain the context of the invention. This is not to be taken as an admission that any
of the material referred to was published, known or part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of this application.
Summary of Invention
[0008]      According to the present invention there is provided a running rail post
ground fixing connector, said connector fitting including an upper portion configured
to be receivable within a bore of a post, a lower portion configured to be receivable
within a bore of a ground fixing and a zone of weakness located between the upper
portion and the lower portion.
[0009]      The zone of weakness is preferably arranged so that in use the upper
portion of the connector fitting can break away from the lower portion when the upper
portion is subject to an impact load. The impact load is preferably a load transferred
from an inadvertent impact of the post.

                                             3
[0010]      The zone of weakness may be continuous about the connector fitting or
may be discontinuous.
[0011]      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, the zone of weakness
is formed by establishing at least one groove or cut away in the periphery of the
connector fitting
[0012]      The connector fitting is preferably tubular in configuration and the groove
or cut away is preferably located generally mid-way along the length of the connector
fitting.
[0013]      The periphery of the connector fitting is preferably circular.
[0014]      The connector fitting is preferably configured so that in use, the zone of
weakness is located generally level with or slightly above an upper face of the
ground fixing. The ground fixing is preferably located in the ground so that the upper
face thereof is located generally level with the surrounding ground so as not to be a
trip hazard when a post or connector fitting is not connected thereto.
[0015]      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, when the zone of
weakness is formed by one or more grooves, the groove or grooves may be of
constant depth or may be of varying depth. The groove or groove may be
continuous and extend about the entire periphery of the connector fitting or may be
discontinuous and only extend about a part of the periphery.
[0016]      The connector fitting is preferably made from a plastics material so that
the zone of weakness can be readily formed therein. For example a groove or
grooves may be cut into the connector to form the zone of weakness.
[0017]      The upper portion of the connector fitting preferably has a greater external
diameter than the lower portion of the connector fitting.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0018]      Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:

                                             4
[0019]      Figure 1 is a side view of a post for a running rail mounted at a lower end
to a ground fixing via a connector fitting according to an embodiment of the
invention. The post is shown connected at an upper end to a running rail; and
[0020]      Figure 2 is an enlarged view of the circled portion shown in Figure 1.
Detailed Description
[0021]      Figure 1 shows a post assembly 10 connected to a running rail 100. The
post assembly 10 includes a tubular upright member or post 20, a connector fitting
30 and a ground fixing 40. Ground fixing 40 is arranged to be hammered into the
ground 200 and as depicted is a length of tubular material (e.g. a length of metal
tube). As clearly shown in Figure 1, the connector fitting 30 establishes a connection
between the lower end of the post 20 and the ground fixing 40.
[0022]      Ground fixing 40 is hammered into the ground so that an upper face 42
(Figure 2) thereof is located generally level with the ground 200. Accordingly, it does
not protrude generally above the surrounding ground and is thus not a trip hazard
when not connected to a post 20.
[0023]      Ground fixing 40 has an upper bore 40. In accordance with a preferred
embodiment of the invention, the upper bore 40a is generally circular in cross
sectional configuration. Other configurations of the bore 40a are envisaged (e.g.
oval, rectangular or square).
[0024]      The post 20 has an upper section 20a that is inclined away from the
running rail 100 so that a horse running along the rail 100 is not at risk of contacting
the post 10. An upper end 20b of the post 20 is arranged for connection to the
running rail 100. The connection is such that it is quickly released in the event that
the post 20 is subject to an impact force from a fallen horse or jockey. A suitable
connection is of the type described in Australian complete patent application
2012258382.
[0025]      The post 20 is preferably made of a tubular material and has a lower bore
20c of substantially circular configuration.

                                                5
[0026]       The connector fitting 30 is preferably made of a tubular plastics material.
In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, the connector fitting 30 has an
internal bore of about 30 mm diameter.
[0027]       The connector fitting 30 has an upper portion 32 and a lower portion 34.
The upper portion 32 is shaped and sized so as to be receivable within the bore 20c
of the post 20 and the lower portion 34 is shaped and sized so as to be receivable
within the bore 40a of the ground fixing 40. In accordance with an embodiment of
the invention, the upper portion 32 of the connector fitting 30 has an external
diameter of about 50 mm and the lower portion 34 of the connector fitting 30 has an
external diameter of about 45 mm. This difference in external diameter is such so as
to restrict the ability of the connector fitting 30 to extend into the bore 40a of the
ground fixing 40. This difference in external diameter of the upper and lower
portions 32, 34 of the connector fitting 30 is best shown in Figure 2.
[0028]       The upper portion 32 of the connector fitting 30 is of sufficient length to
enable the post 20 to mounted thereon and to normally retain the post 20 in an
upright working configuration. In the upright working configuration, the post is
located to support the running rail 100 at the desired height and orientation. The
lower portion 34 of the connector fitting 30 is of sufficient length to locate the
connector fitting 30 in the ground fixing 40. The connections between the ground
fixing 40, connector fitting 30 and post 20 are such that the post 20 can be held in
the upright working configuration during normal use (i.e. when the post is holding the
running rail and the post has not been inadvertently struck by a horse or jockey).
[0029]       In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention, the bore 20c
of the post 20 is generally circular in cross-section, the periphery of the upper portion
32 of the connector fitting 30 is generally circular so as to be receivable in the bore
20c, the periphery of the lower portion 34 of the connector fitting 30 is generally
circular so as to be receivable with the generally circular cross-section upper bore
40a of the ground fixing 40.
[0030]       Located between the upper portion 32 and the lower portion 34 of the
connector fitting 30 is a zone of weakness 36. The zone of weakness 36 is
established by a reduced diameter portion of the connector fitting 30. The reduced

                                               6
diameter portion may be formed by cutting a groove into the periphery of the
connector fitting 30 approximately mid-way along its length.
[0031]       The zone of weakness 36 is arranged so that when the post 20 is struck
generally in the direction of travel of a horse around the race track, some part of that
impact force on the post 20 will be transferred to the upper portion 32 of the
connector fitting 30 locating that post 20. As the lower portion 34 of the connector
fitting 30 is securely held within the upper bore 40a the ground fixing 40, the
transferred impact force will result in the connector fitting 30 breaking off in the area
of the zone of weakness 36. The post 20, with upper portion 32 of the connector
fitting 30 located within the bore 20c thereof, will then be released from the lower
portion 34 of the connector fitting 30 and the ground fixing 40. The post 20 will then
be free to fall to the ground once the upper end 20b of the post 20 disconnects from
the running rail 100.
[0032]       As will be appreciated from examination of Figures 1 and 2, the zone of
weakness 36 in the connector fitting 30 is located in use just above the upper face
42 of the ground fixing 40. Accordingly, when the upper portion 32 of the connector
fitting 30 breaks away from the lower portion 34, the remaining part of the connector
fitting 30 still connected to the ground fixing 40 will have an upper most part located
only just above the upper face 42 of the ground fixing 40. This means that there is
very little possibility of that remaining part of the connector fitting 30 forming a hazard
to either the fallen jockey or horse.
[0033]       The groove cut in the connector fitting 30 to establish the zone of
weakness 36 may be of uniform depth about the periphery of the connector fitting 40
or may be of varying depth. It is envisaged that if the groove was cut with varying
depth, the location or locations of maximum groove depth would be sited in use
generally in a position or positions at which the post is most likely to be inadvertently
struck by a horse or jockey during a fall (e.g. generally along the line of travel of the
horse around the running rail). In this way, the location or locations of most reduced
connector fitting strength would be aligned with the most likely impact location. The
zone of weakness 36 is such so that the connector fitting 30 retains sufficient
strength in the zone of weakness 36 to prevent breaking of the connector fitting 30

                                             7
due to normal weight loadings from the post 20 and running rail 100 and any normal
wind loadings on the post 20 and/or attached running rail 100.
[0034]       In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention, the groove is
cut into the connector fitting 30 so that a cross section cut through a diameter of the
connector fitting 30 in the area of the zone of weakness 36 would adopt a
substantially elliptical configuration. However, as mentioned above, other
configurations are envisaged. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention
wherein the cross-sectional configuration of the zone of weakness 36 is elliptical, the
minor diameter of the ellipse is about 38 mm, the outer diameter of the upper portion
32 is about 50 mm and the outer diameter of the lower portion 34 is about 45 mm.
[0035]       A connector fitting in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is
advantageous because it provides a simple but yet effective way to quickly connect a
post to a ground fixing. Additionally, the post can be readily broken free of the
ground fixing when it is accidentally impacted. Further, the part of the connector
fitting retained with the ground fixing when the connector fitting breaks in the area of
the zone of weakness does not extend substantially above the ground fixing and
thus does not represent a hazard.
[0036]       The embodiments have been described by way of example only and
modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention are envisaged.

                                            8
Claims
1.    A running rail post ground fixing connector, said connector fitting including an
       upper portion configured to be receivable within a bore of a post, a lower
       portion configured to be receivable within a bore of a ground fixing and a zone
      of weakness located between the upper portion and the lower portion.
2.    A running rail post ground fixing connector according to claim 1 wherein the
      zone of weakness is arranged so that in use the upper portion of the
      connector fitting can break away from the lower portion when the upper
       portion is subject to an impact load.
3.    A running rail post ground fixing connector according to claim 1 or claim 2
      wherein the zone of weakness is continuous about the connector fitting.
4.    A running rail post ground fixing connector according to claim 1 or claim 2
      wherein the zone of weakness is discontinuous about the connector fitting.
5.    A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of the
       preceding claims wherein the connector fitting is tubular in configuration.
6.    A running rail post ground fixing connector according to claim 5 wherein the
      connector fitting has a generally circular periphery.
7.    A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of the
       preceding claims wherein the zone of weakness is formed by establishing at
       least one groove or cut away in a periphery of the connector fitting
8.    A running rail post ground fixing connector according to claim 7 wherein the
      groove or cut away is located generally mid-way along the length of the
      connector fitting.
9.    A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of the
       preceding claims configured so that in use, the zone of weakness is located
      generally level with or slightly above an upper face of the ground fixing.

                                         9
10. A running rail post ground fixing connector according to claim 7 or claim 8
    wherein the at least one groove or cut away has a constant depth along its
    length
11.  A running rail post ground fixing connector according to claim 7 or claim 8
    wherein the at least one groove or cut away has a varying depth along its
    length.
12. A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of claims 7 to
    11 wherein the at least one groove or cut-away is continuous and extends
    about the periphery of the connector fitting.
13. A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of claims 7 to
    11 wherein the at least one groove or cut-away is discontinuous and only
    extend about a part of the periphery of the connector fitting.
14. A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of the
    preceding claims wherein the connector fitting is made from a plastics
    material so that the zone of weakness can be cut into the connector.
15. A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of the
    preceding claims wherein the connector fitting is made from a length of
    tubular material.
16. A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of the
    preceding claims wherein the zone of weakness has a substantially elliptical
    cross-sectional configuration.
17. A running rail post ground fixing connector according to any one of the
    preceding claims where the upper portion has a greater external diameter
    than the lower portion.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
