I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16696395_l.docx-23 03 2018
ABSTRACT
                                 The present invention generally provides improved gene therapy vectors,
cell-based compositions, and methods of using the same in methods of gene therapy. The
present invention further provides improved gene therapy compositions for expanding
hematopoietic cells and related methods for treatment of diseases, disorders, and
conditions of the hematopoietic system such as thalassemias and anemias.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                               IMPROVED GENE THERAPY METHODS
This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2011377617, the entire
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
STATEMENT REGARDING SEQUENCE LISTING
                           The Sequence Listing associated with this application is provided in text
format in lieu of a paper copy, and is hereby incorporated by reference into the
specification. The name of the text file containing the Sequence Listing is
BLBD_005_00WO_ST25.txt. The text file is 95 KB, was created on September 23, 2011,
and is being submitted electronically via EFS-Web.
BACKGROUND
Technical Field
                           The present invention generally relates to compositions used for expanding
cells and for treatment of disorders using gene therapy. More particularly, the present
invention relates to improved gene therapy compositions for expanding hematopoietic cells
and related methods for treatment of diseases, disorders, and conditions of the
hematopoietic system.
Description of the Related Art
                           Recent progress in the field of gene therapy has raised the hope that patients
afflicted with hemoglobinopathies such as thalassemia and sickle cell anemia will benefit
from novel therapeutic approaches. Transplantation of hematopoietic cells (HCs) modified
with lentiviral vectors carrying the                       p-globin gene has resulted in long-term correction of

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           -2
several mouse models of hemoglobin disorders Imren et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A.
2002;99(22):14380-14385; Malik et al., Ann NYAcad Sci. 2005; 1054:238-249; May et al.,
Nature. 2000;406(6791):82-86; Pawliuk et al., Science. 2001;294(5550): 2368-2371), but
in contrast, has led to transfusion independency in only one phalassemic patient
(Cavazzana-Calvo et al., Nature. 2010;467(7313):318-322). Although the main
advantages of infusing genetically modified autologous cells are to avoid the risks of
GVHD and immunosuppressive pretransplant conditioning as well as to address the lack of
compatible donors, current therapy faces at least three substantive caveats: the requirement
for toxic myeloablation (Dunbar et al,. Hum Gene Ther. 1998;9(17):2629-2640); current
gene transfer methods are unable to transduce more than a fraction of hematopoietic stem
cells (HSCs) (Santoni de Sio and Naldini, Methods Mol Biol. 2009;506:59-70); and various
in vivo selection strategies available suffer from suboptimal efficacy and safety (Beard et
al., J Clin Invest. 2010;120(7):2345-2354; Cornetta et al., Cancer Gene Ther.
2006; 13(9):886-895; Milsom et al., CancerRes. 2008;68(15): 6171-6180).
                           For example, phalassemic recipient mice required at least 200 rads of
irradiation and a very high dose of bone marrow cells (>20 x 106) to achieve stable
engraftment and phenotypic improvement (Bradley et al., Biol Blood Marrow Transplant.
2002;8(8):453-461. However, cytokine-expanded marrow cells have a defective long-term
repopulating capability in irradiated (Peters et al., Blood. 1996;87(1):30-37) as well as
nonmyeloablated mouse recipients, (Ramshaw et al., Blood. 1995;86(3):924-929) leading
to low-level engraftment of retroviral transduced cells in mice and patients in the absence
of a pretransplantation conditioning regimen (Dunbar et al., 1998; Kittler et al., Blood.
 1997;90(2):865-872).
                           Accordingly, there is a need in the art for improved methods of gene therapy
for the treatment or prevention of hematopoietic disorders. The present invention offers
solutions to these and other problems that plague the art.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                -3
BRIEF SUMMARY
                           The present provides compositions for expanding cells and for treatment of
disorders using gene therapy. In various embodiments, the present invention provides
improved gene therapy compositions for expanding hematopoietic cells and related
methods for treatment of diseases, disorders, and conditions of the hematopoietic system.
                           In various embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in part, a
vector comprising: a left (5') retroviral LTR; hematopoietic cell expression control
sequence operably linked to a gene of interest; an ubiquitous expression control sequence
operably linked to a truncated erythropoietin receptor (tEpoR); and a right (3') retroviral
LTR.
                           In a particular embodiment, the hematopoietic cell expression control
sequence is a hematopoietic stem cell promoter or a hematopoietic progenitor cell
promoter.
                           In a certain embodiment, the hematopoietic cell expression control sequence
comprises an erythroid cell specific promoter and optionally an erythroid cell specific
enhancer.
                           In a further embodiment, the hematopoietic cell expression control sequence
is selected from the group consisting of: a human                     p-globin promoter; a human  p-globin
LCR; and a human u-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1 promoter.
                           In an additional embodiment, the ubiquitous expression control sequence is
selected from the group consisting of: a cytomegalovirus immediate early gene promoter
(CMV), an elongation factor 1 alpha promoter (EF1-), a phosphoglycerate kinase -1
promoter (PGK), a ubiquitin-C promoter (UBQ-C), a cytomegalovirus enhancer/chicken
beta-actin promoter (CAG), polyoma enhancer/herpes simplex thymidine kinase promoter
(MCl), a beta actin promoter (-ACT),                       and a simian virus 40 promoter (SV40).
                           In one particular embodiment, the gene of interest is selected from the group
consisting of: human                  p-globin, human      6-globin, and human y-globin.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                 -4
                            In another particular embodiment, the human           p-globin gene is the human
$4 -globin gene encoding a threonine to glutamine mutation at codon 87 (P                     1 A-T87Q) or a
human          $4 -globin       gene.
                            In a certain particular embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation.
                            In an additional particular embodiment, the C-terminal truncation reduces
the turnover of the tEpoR compared to an endogenous erythropoietin receptor (EpoR).
                            In a further particular embodiment, the C-terminal truncation increases the
half-life of the tEpoR compared to an endogenous erythropoietin receptor (EpoR).
                            In various embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in part, a
vector comprising: a left (5') retroviral LTR; a first erythroid cell specific expression
control sequence operably linked to a gene of interest; a second erythroid cell specific
expression control sequence operably linked to a tEpoR; and a right (3') retroviral LTR.
                            In one embodiment, the first erythroid cell specific expression control
sequence is selected from the group consisting of: a human                       p-globin promoter;   a human   p
globin LCR; and a human ca-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1 promoter.
                            In a particular embodiment, the second erythroid cell specific expression
control sequence is selected from the group consisting of: a human                       p-globin promoter;   a
human          p-globin LCR;           and a human u-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1 promoter.
                            In a certain embodiment, the gene of interest is selected from the group
consisting of: human                   p-globin, human      6-globin, and human y-globin.
                            In a certain particular embodiment, the human          p-globin gene  is selected
from the group consisting of a wild type human                       p-globin gene, a deleted human    p-globin
gene comprising one or more deletions of intron sequences, and a mutated                        human p-globin
gene encoding at least one antisickling amino acid residue.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            -5
                            In a further embodiment, the human   p-globin gene  is the human j4 -globin
gene encoding a threonine to glutamine mutation at codon 87 ($4 -T87Q) or a human $4
globin gene.
                            In a further particular embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation.
                            In an additional embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal truncation
of about 10 to about 100 amino acids.
                            In a further additional embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of 50 to 60 amino acids.
                            In one particular embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal truncation
of 80 to 90 amino acids.
                            In another particular embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of 85 to 95 amino acids.
                            In yet another particular embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of about 55, about 83, or about 91 amino acids.
                            In various embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in part, a
vector comprising: a left (5') retroviral LTR; a 3-globin promoter and a 3-globin locus
control region (LCR) operably linked to a gene of interest; an expression control sequence
operably linked to a truncated erythropoietin receptor (tEpoR); and a right (3') retroviral
LTR.
                            In one embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein is a lentivirus
vector.
                            In a certain embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein comprise a
5' LTR or 3' LTR from a lentivirus, i.e., a lentivirus LTR.
                            In a certain particular embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein
comprise a 5' LTR and 3' LTR from a lentivirus, i.e., lentivirus LTRs.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                 -6
                            In a certain further embodiment, the lentivirus is selected from the group
consisting of: human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), human immunodeficiency
virus type 2 (HIV-2), visna virus, caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus (CAEV), equine
infectious anemia virus (EIAV), feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), bovine immune
deficiency virus (BIV), and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV).
                            In a certain additional embodiment, the lentivirus is HIV-1.
                            In a particular additional embodiment, the promoter of the 5' LTR is
replaced with a heterologous promoter.
                            In a particular further embodiment, the heterologous promoter is a
cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter, a Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV) promoter, a thymidine
kinase promoter, or an Simian Virus 40 (SV40) promoter.
                            In a particular certain embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein
comprise a 3' LTR comprising one or more modifications.
                            In a particular embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein
comprise a 3' LTR comprising one or more deletions.
                            In one particular embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein
comprise a 3' LTR that is a self-inactivating (SIN) LTR.
                            In one embodiment, the          P-globin promoter is a human p-globin promoter.
                            In another       embodiment, the p-globin LCR comprises one or more of
DNAase I hypersensitive sites 2, 3 and 4 from the human                        p-globin LCR.
                            In an additional embodiment, the gene of interest is a globin gene.
                            In a further embodiment, the globin gene is selected from the group
consisting of: human                   p-globin, human      6-globin, and human y-globin.
                            In a certain embodiment, the human          p-globin gene  is selected from the
group consisting of a wild type human                       p-globin gene, a deleted human   p-globin gene
comprising one or more deletions of intron sequences, and a mutated                        human p-globin gene
encoding at least one antisickling amino acid residue.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                 -7
                           In a particular embodiment, the human          P-globin gene   is the human jk
globin gene encoding a threonine to glutamine mutation at codon 87 (PA-T87Q) or a human
 k -globin gene.
                           In one particular embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein
further comprise a human                      p-globin 3'  enhancer element.
                           In a further embodiment, the expression control sequence is a ubiquitous
expression control sequence selected from the group consisting of: a cytomegalovirus
immediate early gene promoter (CMV), an elongation factor 1 alpha promoter (EF1-), a
phosphoglycerate kinase-1 promoter (PGK), a ubiquitin-C promoter (UBQ-C), a
cytomegalovirus enhancer/chicken beta-actin promoter (CAG), polyoma enhancer/herpes
simplex thymidine kinase promoter (MCl), a beta actin promoter (-ACT),                            and a simian
virus 40 promoter (SV40).
                           In a particular embodiment, the expression control sequence is an erythroid
specific expression control sequence is selected from the group consisting of: a human                       p
globin promoter; a human                      p-globin LCR;    and a human a.-globin HS40 enhancer and an
ankyrin- 1 promoter.
                           In a certain particular embodiment, the erythroid specific expression control
sequence comprises a human a.-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1 promoter.
                           In a particular embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein
comprise one or more of a Psi packaging sequence (4),                         a central polypurine tract/DNA
flap (cPPT/FLAP), a retroviral export element, a posttranscriptional regulatory element, an
insulator element, a polyadenylation sequence, a selectable marker, and a cell suicide gene.
                           In a certain embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein comprise a
Psi packaging sequence (4), a central polypurine t ract/DNA flap (cPPT/FLAP), a
retroviral export element, an insulator element, and a polyadenylation sequence.
                           In a further embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein comprise a
retroviral export element that is a rev response element (RRE).

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           -8
                           In an additional, embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein
comprise a cPPT/FLAP from HIV-1.
                           In one embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein comprise a gene
of interest comprising an optimized Kozak sequence.
                           In various embodiments, the tEpoR comprises an optimized Kozak
sequence.
                           In a particular embodiment, any of the vectors contemplated herein
comprise an optimal Kozak sequence, (GCC)RCCATGG, wherein R is a purine (A or G).
                           In an additional embodiment, the 3' LTR comprises at least one insulator
element.
                           In a certain additional embodiment, the 3' LTR comprises two insulator
elements.
                           In a particular additional embodiment, an insulator comprises a
polynucleotide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 37 or 38.
                           In a further additional embodiment, an insulator comprises a polynucleotide
sequence as set forth in nucleotides 8-49 of SEQ ID NO: 37.
                           In a certain embodiment, the polyadenylation sequence is selected from the
group consisting of: AATAAA, ATTAAA, AGTAAA, a bovine growth hormone polyA
sequence (BGHpA), and a rabbit -globin polyA sequence (ropA).
                           In one embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal truncation.
                           In another embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal truncation of
about 10 to about 100 amino acids.
                           In yet another embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal truncation of
50 to 60 amino acids.
                           In still yet another embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of 80 to 90 amino acids.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           -9
                           In a particular embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal truncation of
85 to 95 amino acids.
                           In a further embodiment, the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal truncation of
about 55, about 83, or about 91 amino acids.
                           In various embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in part, a
vector comprising: a left (5') retroviral LTR; a Psi packaging sequence (");                a central
polypurine tract/DNA flap (cPPT/FLAP); a retroviral export element; a 3-globin promoter
and a 3-globin locus control region (LCR) operably linked to a gene of interest; an
erythroid cell specific expression control sequence operably linked to a truncated
erythropoietin receptor (tEpoR); and a right (3') retroviral LTR that comprises one or more
insulator elements, or a polyadenylation sequence.
                           In various particular embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in
part, a lentiviral vector comprising: a left (5') HIV-1 LTR; a Psi packaging sequence (L);
an HIV-1 central polypurine tract/DNA flap (cPPT/FLAP); a rev response element (RRE);
a 3-globin promoter and a 3-globin locus control region (LCR) operably linked to a gene of
interest; an erythroid cell specific expression control sequence operably linked to a
truncated erythropoietin receptor (tEpoR); and a right (3') retroviral LTR that comprises
one or more insulator elements, and a rabbit                p-globin polyA sequence (repA).
                           In various other embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in part, a
composition comprising any of the vectors contemplated herein.
                           In one embodiment, the composition comprises a cell.
                           In an additional embodiment, the cell is selected from the group consisting
of: an embryonic stem cell, an adult stem cell, an adult progenitor cell, and a differentiated
adult cell.
                           In a particular embodiment, the cell is a hematopoietic stem cell or a
hematopoietic progenitor cell.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 10
                            In a further embodiment, the source of the stem or progenitor cell is bone
marrow, cord blood, placental blood, or peripheral blood.
                            In a certain embodiment, the cell is transduced with the vector.
                            In another embodiment, the vector is an episomal vector or is not integrated
into the genome of the cell.
                            In a particular embodiment, the vector is integrated into the genome of the
cell.
                            In one particular embodiment, the integration is targeted to a location in the
genome.
                            In various embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in part, a
method of providing a transduced cell to a subject comprising: administering a population
of cells comprising a cell transduced with any of the vectors contemplated herein.
                            In a particular embodiment, the transduced cells comprise hematopoietic
stem cells.
                            In a certain particular embodiment, the transduced cells comprise
hematopoietic progenitor cells.
                            In a certain embodiment, the population of cells comprises 5% cells
transduced with any of the vectors contemplated herein.
                            In a further embodiment, the population of cells comprises 10% cells
transduced with any of the vectors contemplated herein.
                            In a related particular embodiment, the population of cells comprises 25%
cells transduced with any of the vectors contemplated herein.
                            In various embodiments, a method of providing a transduced cell to a
subject further comprises administering erythropoietin to the subject.
                            In one embodiment, the population of cells and erythropoietin are
administered parenterally.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                              - 11
                           In certain embodiments, the parenteral administration is intravenous
administration.
                           In additional embodiments, the population of cells is administered to the
subject before the erythropoietin is administered to the subject.
                           In one embodiment, the subject has a hemoglobinopathy.
                           In particular embodiments, the hemoglobinopathy is selected from the group
consisting of: hemoglobin C disease, hemoglobin sickle cell disease (SCD), sickle cell
anemia, hereditary anemia, thalassemia,                    p-thalassemia, thalassemia major, thalassemia
intermedia, a.-thalassemia, and hemoglobin H disease.
                           In various other embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in part, a
method of treating a hemoglobinopathy in a subject comprising: administering a
population of cells comprising hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells transduced with any
of the vectors contemplated herein, wherein the hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells or
progeny cells of the hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells are increased in the subject after
the administration of erythropoietin compared to hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells or
progeny cells in the subject before the administration of erythropoietin.
                           In a particular embodiment, the population of cells was isolated from bone
marrow, cord blood, placental blood, or peripheral blood.
                           In an additional embodiment, 5% of the hematopoietic stem or progenitor
cells have been transduced.
                           In a certain embodiment, 10% of the hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells
have been transduced.
                           In a further embodiment, 25% of the hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells
have been transduced.
                           In a particular embodiment, a method of treating a hemoglobinopathy in a
subject comprises administering erythropoietin to the subject.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                               - 12
                            In one embodiment, the population of cells and erythropoietin are
administered intravascularly.
                            In a further embodiment, the administration is intravenous.
                            In another embodiment, the hemoglobinopathy is selected from the group
consisting of: hemoglobin C disease, hemoglobin sickle cell disease (SCD), sickle cell
anemia, hereditary anemia, thalassemia,                     p-thalassemia, thalassemia major, thalassemia
intermedia, a-thalassemia, and hemoglobin H disease.
                            In another particular embodiment, the hemoglobinopathy is         p-thalassemia.
                            In a certain particular embodiment, the subject has undergone is or
undergoing bone marrow ablative chemotherapy or irradiation.
                            In a particular further embodiment, the progeny cells increased in the
subject comprise erythroid cells.
                            In an additional particular embodiment, the erythroid cells are erythroid
progenitor cells.
                            In one embodiment, the erythroid cells are erythrocytes.
                            In one embodiment, the erythroid cells are increased at least 10 fold after the
administration of erythropoietin compared to the erythroid cells in the subject before the
administration of erythropoietin.
                            In another embodiment, the erythroid cells are increased at least 25 fold
after the administration of erythropoietin compared to the erythroid cells in the subject
before the administration of erythropoietin.
                            In yet another embodiment, the erythroid cells are increased at least 50 fold
after the administration of erythropoietin compared to the erythroid cells in the subject
before the administration of erythropoietin.
                            In still yet another embodiment, the erythroid cells are increased at least 100
fold after the administration of erythropoietin compared to the erythroid cells in the subject
before the administration of erythropoietin.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 13
                           In a particular embodiment, the erythroid cells are increased at least 25 fold
compared to non-erythroid cells in the subject after the administration of erythropoietin.
                           In another particular embodiment, the erythroid cells are increased at least
50 fold compared to non-erythroid cells in the subject after the administration of
erythropoietin.
                           In yet another particular embodiment, the erythroid cells are increased at
least 100 fold compared to non-erythroid cells in the subject after the administration of
erythropoietin.
                           In still yet another particular embodiment, the erythroid cells are increased
at least 150 fold compared to non-erythroid cells in the subject after the administration of
erythropoietin.
                           In various other embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in part, a
method of selectively expanding the number erythroid cells in a subject comprising:
administering a population of cells comprising hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells
transduced with any of the vectors contemplated herein, wherein the number of erythroid
progeny cells of the hematopoietic stem cells are expanded in the subject.
                           In various particular embodiments, the present invention contemplates, in
part, a method of increasing the proportion of red blood cells compared to white blood cells
in a subject comprising: administering a population of cells comprising hematopoietic
stem or progenitor cells transduced with any of the vectors contemplated herein,
administering erythropoietin to the subject, wherein the proportion of red blood cell
progeny cells of the hematopoietic stem cells are increased compared to white blood cell
progeny cells of the hematopoietic stem cells in the subject.
                           In a particular embodiment, a method of selectively expanding the number
erythroid cells in a subject comprises administering erythropoietin to the subject.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 14
                            In a particular embodiment, a method of increasing the proportion of red
blood cells compared to white blood cells in a subject comprises administering
erythropoietin to the subject.
                            In a certain embodiment, the population of cells was isolated from bone
marrow, cord blood, placental blood, or peripheral blood.
                            In one embodiment, 5% of the hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells have
been transduced.
                            In another embodiment, 10% of the hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells
have been transduced.
                            In yet another embodiment, 25% of the hematopoietic stem or progenitor
cells have been transduced.
                            In a certain embodiment, the population of cells and erythropoietin are
administered intravascularly.
                            In another certain embodiment, the administration is intravenous.
                            In a further embodiment, the subject has a hemoglobinopathy.
                            In a further particular embodiment, the hemoglobinopathy is selected from
the group consisting of: hemoglobin C disease, hemoglobin sickle cell disease (SCD),
sickle cell anemia, hereditary anemia, thalassemia,              p-thalassemia, thalassemia major,
thalassemia intermedia, a-thalassemia, and hemoglobin H disease.
                            In a further additional embodiment, the hemoglobinopathy is   p-thalassemia.
                            In a further certain embodiment, the subject has undergone is or undergoing
bone marrow ablative chemotherapy or irradiation.
                            In one embodiment, the erythroid progeny cells are increased at least 10 fold
after the administration of erythropoietin compared to the erythroid progeny cells in the
subject before the administration of erythropoietin.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 15
                           In another embodiment, the erythroid progeny cells are increased at least 25
fold after the administration of erythropoietin compared to the erythroid progeny cells in
the subject before the administration of erythropoietin.
                           In yet another embodiment, the erythroid progeny cells are increased at least
50 fold after the administration of erythropoietin compared to the erythroid progeny cells in
the subject before the administration of erythropoietin.
                           In still yet another embodiment, the erythroid progeny cells are increased at
least 100 fold after the administration of erythropoietin compared to the erythroid progeny
cells in the subject before the administration of erythropoietin.
                           In a particular embodiment, the erythroid progeny cells are increased 25 fold
compared to non-erythroid cells in the subject after the administration of erythropoietin.
                           In another particular embodiment, the erythroid progeny cells are increased
50 fold compared to non-erythroid cells in the subject after the administration of
erythropoietin.
                           In yet another particular embodiment, the erythroid progeny cells are
increased 100 fold compared to non-erythroid cells in the subject after the administration of
erythropoietin.
                           In still yet another particular embodiment, the erythroid cells progeny are
increased 150 fold compared to non-erythroid cells in the subject after the administration of
erythropoietin.
                           In various embodiments, the erythroid progeny cells comprise erythrocytes.
                           In a certain embodiment, the RBCs are increased at least 25 fold compared
to WBCs in the subject after the administration of erythropoietin.
                           In another certain embodiment, the RBCs are increased at least 50 fold
compared to WBCs in the subject after the administration of erythropoietin.
                           In yet another certain embodiment, the RBCs are increased at least 100 fold
compared to WBCs in the subject after the administration of erythropoietin.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                               - 16
                           In still yet another certain embodiment, the RBCs are increased at least 150
fold compared to WBCs in the subject after the administration of erythropoietin.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
                           Figure 1 shows several viral vector constructs and mouse erythropoietin
receptors (EpoR) used in particular experiments described herein. (A) A mouse
gammaretroviral vector (KV) that contains an inter nal ribosomal entry site (IRES)-driven
enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) reporter gene under the control of the MSCV
(murine stem cell virus) LTR (long terminal repeat) promoter. EpoR cDNAs were cloned
in front of the IRES. (B) A LentiGlobin (LG) vector that encodes a modified                      p-globin
(pAT87Q)         chain under the control of the human             p-globin promoter  and locus control region
(LCR). The LG vector also contains a deletion in the U3 region of the right long terminal
repeat (LTR), the rabbit                  p-globin polyA    signal, and the two 250 bp chromatin insulators of
the hypersensitive site 4 (HS4) chicken                    p-globin  locus. LG/HA-Yl contains a truncated
EpoR-Y 1 cDNA under control of a human a.-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1
promoter. LG/HA-eGFP contains eGFP in place of EpoRYl. HPV570 contains eGFP
under the control of an EFl (promoter. (C) Murine wild type (EpoRYl-8) and truncated
EpoR (EpoRYl-7 to EpoRYl). The first 24 amino acids that constitute the hydrophobic
leader sequence are not present and are not taken into account in numbering. Tyrosine (Y)
343, 401, 429,431, 443, 460, 464 and 479 are shown. In EpoRY1 and EpoRY1-2, a stop
codon replaces Y401 and Y429. (D) Human wild type (hEpoRY1-8) and truncated EpoR
(hEpoRYl-7 to EpoRYl). The first 24 amino acids that constitute the hydrophobic leader
sequence are not present and are not taken into account in numbering. Tyrosine (Y) 344,
402, 430,432, 444, 461, 465 and 480 are shown.
                           Figure 2 shows an increase in the proportion of peripheral blood cells
modified by tEpoR, 20 weeks after transplantation. (A) Mean percentages, standard errors,
and individual values of eGFP-positive RBCs and WBCs. Hematopoietic cells (HCs) were

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 17
transduced by KV (1), KV/EpoRY 1 (2), KV/EpoRY 1                      -2 (3), or KV/EpoRYl -8 (4)
retroviral vectors. (B) Mean plasma Epo levels and standard errors measured in the same
mice. *P<.05 compared with groups 1 and 4.
                           Figure 3 shows strict erythroid specific expression of eGFP conferred by the
HA promoter within the LG vector. Mean percentages and individual values of eGFP
positive cells in BM (B lymphoid [B], myeloid [M], and erythroid [E]), thymus (T
lymphoid [T]), and peripheral blood (B, M, T, and RBCs) of normal mice transplanted with
(top) LG/HA-eGFP or (bottom) HPV570 (EFla.-eGFP) transduced cells. For leukocytes,
donor cells were identified by CD45.2 antigen expression.
                           Figure 4 shows that tEpoR mediates erythroid cell amplification. (A-B)
Relationship between the percentage of modified RBCs and the percentage of transduced
WBCs in the peripheral blood of LG (m) and LG/HA-EpoRYl (o) mice. Assuming a
minimal effect of tEpoR on modified leukocytes, 4 theoretical curves corresponding to 1-,
 10-, 50-, and 200-fold preferential expansion of modified erythroid cells (FE factor) are
derived from equations 3 (A) and 2 (B). Greater curvature (A) and left shift of the straight
lines (B) corresponds to greater advantage for modified erythroid cells over unmodified
cells. (C-D) The bottom and top boundary of the boxes indicate the                2 5 th  and 7 5 th
percentiles. Whiskers (error bars) above and below the box indicate the                  9 0 th and  1 0 th
percentiles. The line within the box marks the median. (C) Median and individual
erythroid amplification factor FE in LG (m)and LG/HA-EpoRYl (o) mice. (D) Median
and individual ratio between the genetically modified leukocyte (WBC) fraction and the ex
vivo-modified HC fraction before transplantation in LG (m) and LG/HA-EpoRYl (0) mice.
                           Figure 5 shows that correction of anemia and dyserythropoiesis depends, in
part, on the level of modified RBC, independently of the presence of tEpoR in the vectors.
Mice transplanted with LG/HA-EpoRYl (o) or LG (m) transduced marrow cells. (A)
Correlation of total and human hemoglobin concentrations (Hb), erythrocyte counts (RBC),
reticulocyte percentages (Retic), and spleen weight with modified RBC of transplanted                       P

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 18
thalassemic mice. Regression lines and 95% confidence intervals (dashed lines) were
obtained from LG mice having a proportion of RBC greater than 40%. The bottom and top
boundaries of the horizontally and vertically hatched boxes indicate mean ± SD of values
from        phalassemic         and normal C57BL/6J mice. For h emoglobin, the bottom and top
regression lines corresponds to therapeutic (human) and total hemoglobin, respectively.
(B) Correlation of spleen weight with percentage of erythroid cells in the spleen. The
regression line and 95% confidence interval were plotted with data from all mice. Three
mice receiving mock-transduced cells were included ()o
                           Figure 6 shows that anemia is corrected at lower levels of modified WBCs
when tEpoR is coexpressed with the therapeutic globin gene. Mice transplanted with
LG/HA-EpoRYl (o) or LG (m)transduced marrow cells. (A) Correlation of modified
RBC (RBC), hematocrit values (He), total hemoglobin concentrations (Hb), and
reticulocyte percentages (Retic) with modified WBC (WBC) of transplanted                    phalassemic
mice. The hatched line separates data with WBC below and above 20%. (B) Mean ± SD
and individual modified RBC percentages, hematocrit values, total hemoglobin
concentrations, and reticulocyte percentages of mice with WBC below and above 20%.
Numbers below the graphs indicate the mean percentage of modified WBCs.
                           Figure 7 shows that BM homeostasis is maintained 10 months after
transplantation. (A) Proportion of myeloid (M), B-lymphoid (B), and T-lymphoid (T) cells
among CD45.2-positive leukocytes in peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) of LG
(filled bars) and LG/HA-Yl (open bars) mice. (B) Logarithm of plasma Epo with human
corrected RBC (RBC). The regression line and 95% confidence intervals (dashed lines)
were obtained from LG mice having a proportion of RBC greater than 40%. The bottom
and top boundaries of the horizontally and vertically hatched boxes indicate mean SD of
values from            phalassemic          and normal C57BL/6J mice, respectivel y. (C) Mean SD and
individual leukocyte and platelet numbers in peripheral blood of LG (m) and LG/HA-Yl
(o) mice.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 19
                           Figure 8 shows a lack of association of LG/HA-EpoRY 1 vector integration
sites (IS) with proto-oncogenes after erythroid cell expansion. Integration sites from all 4
mice were pooled for this analysis. Integration sites isolated from Terl 19+ (A) and CD45*
(B) BM cells are labeled according to the nearest RefSeq gene. The relative clone size was
quantified by the number of times it was isolated with independent integration events
catalyzed by MuA transposase in vitro. Proto-oncogenes, as annotated in the allOnco
database, are indicated by asterisks. The frequency of IS in which the nearest gene is an
oncogene is not statistically different between erythroid and nonerythroid cells (P = .5523).
(C) Integration site proximity to proto-oncogenes. The proportions of integration sites > 50
kb and < 50 kb from a proto-oncogene are shown. No significant differences in the number
of integration sites found < 50 kb from a proto-oncogene were found between integration
sites identified in this study and IS characterized in HCs transduced with the LG vector
before and after transplantation (P > .05 with the 2-tailed Fisher exact test).
                           Figure 9 shows that tEpoR induces a high proportion of eGFP+ erythroid,
lymphoid and myeloid cells twenty weeks post-transplantation. Mean and median
percentages (blue and red lines respectively), standard errors (blue error bars), 25th and
75th percentiles (bottom and top boundary of the boxes) and individual percentages (grey
circles) of eGFP positive cells in the red blood cells (RBC), white blood cells (WBCs),
lymphoid cells (lympho) and myeloid cells (GM: granulo/monocytes) compartments.
Hematopoietic cells were transduced by KV, KV/Epo                   RYl (Y1), KV/EpoRY1 -2 (Yl-2)
or KV/EpoRY1 -8 (Y1-8) retroviral vectors.
                           Figure 10 shows that myeloid cells expressing the highest level of eGFP are
selected in mouse transplanted with cells modified by tEpoR. Mean of the mean
fluorescence intensities (histograms), standard deviations (blue error bars), and individual
MFI (grey circles) in hematopoietic cells before transplantation (in vitro) and in lymphoid
cells (lympho) and myeloid cells (GM) compartments. Hematopoietic cells were

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 20
transduced by IKV, KV/EpoRY1 (Y1), KV/EpoRY1                        -2 (Y1-2) or KV/EpoRY1 -8 (Y1-8)
retroviral vectors.
                           Figure 11 shows the distribution of integration sites isolated from CD45*
and Terl 19+ bone marrow cells of four LG/HA-EpoRYl mice. Integration sites are labeled
according to the nearest RefSeq gene. The proportion of sites recovered was quantified by
the number of times it was isolated with independent integration events catalyzed by MuA
transposase in vitro. Sites recovered that contributed to less than 2% of the isolated
integration sites were combined into the low frequency group. The number of independent
Mu transposition events, reflecting clonal abundance, is indicated below each cell type of
each mouse.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEQUENCE IDENTIFIERS
                           SEQ ID NO: 1 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence of a human alpha
globin cDNA.
                           SEQ ID NO: 2 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a human alpha globin
polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 3 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a mouse alpha globin
polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 4 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a rat alpha globin
polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 5 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence of a human beta globin
cDNA.
                           SEQ ID NO: 6 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a human beta globin
polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 7 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a mutant human beta
globin polypeptide.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 21
                           SEQ ID NO: 8 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a mouse beta globin
polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 9 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a rat beta globin
polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 10 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence of a human gamma
globin cDNA.
                           SEQ ID NO: 11 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a human gamma
globin polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 12 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a mouse gamma
globin polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 13 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a rat gamma globin
polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 14 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence of a human delta
globin cDNA.
                           SEQ ID NO: 15 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a human delta globin
polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 16 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence of a human
erythropoietin receptor cDNA.
                           SEQ ID NO: 17 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence of a mouse
erythropoietin receptor cDNA.
                           SEQ ID NO: 18 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence of a rat erythropoietin
receptor cDNA.
                           SEQ ID NO: 19 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a human
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 20 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated human
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 22
                           SEQ ID NO: 21 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated human
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 22 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a human
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 23 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated human
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 24 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated human
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 25 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a mouse
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 26 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated mouse
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 27 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated mouse
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 28 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a mouse
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 29 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated mouse
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 30 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated mouse
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 31 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a rat erythropoietin
receptor polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 32 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated rat
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 33 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated rat
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 23
                           SEQ ID NO: 34 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a rat erythropoietin
receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 35 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated rat
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 36 sets forth an amino acid sequence of a truncated rat
erythropoietin receptor polypeptide lacking the 24 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide.
                           SEQ ID NO: 37 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence comprising an
insulator sequence.
                           SEQ ID NO: 38 sets forth a polynucleotide sequence comprising an
insulator sequence.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A.             Overview
                           The present invention generally relates to improved gene therapy vectors
and methods of using the same to treat, prevent, or ameliorate genetic disorders. One
significant challenge for gene therapy is to maintain and/or expand corrected cell
populations in subjects undergoing transplantation where the corrected cells do not have an
intrinsic selective advantage over nontransduced cells. For example, in inherited
hematopoietic disorders, e.g., sickle cell disease and            p-thalassemia, limitations include, but
are not limited to, inefficient transduction of hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells, the
requirement for toxic myelosuppressive or myeloablative therapy, and a lack of optimal
methods for in vivo selection of transduced cells.
                           The present invention is based, in part, on the unexpected discovery that the
gene therapy vectors of the invention can be used to selectively or specifically, expand or
increase the numbers of therapeutic cells in vitro, ex vivo, or in vivo to further increase the
efficacy and specificity of gene therapy. Without wishing to be bound to any particular

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 24
theory, the present invention contemplates, in part, that because the therapeutic cells
carrying the vectors of the invention can be substantially expanded, fewer cells are required
to provide therapeutic, preventive, or ameliorative endpoints for the subjects receiving the
gene therapy. Moreover, because all of or at least a portion of cells carrying the vectors of
the invention have a proliferative advantage over other cells, myelosuppressive or
myeloablative therapy is not necessarily required to achieve therapeutic, preventive, or
ameliorative endpoints.
                           Accordingly, the present invention addresses an unmet clinical need for
improving the efficacy of gene therapy in the treatment of genetic diseases, whereby only a
portion of cells have been effectively targeted by a vector but at levels that are insufficient
for conferring a therapeutic, preventive, or ameliorative effect. The invention specifically
relates to vectors, genetically engineered cells, and selective expansion the genetically
engineered cells or a population of cells thereof, in vitro, ex vivo, or in vivo, to facilitate the
desired outcome.
                           The practice of the present invention will employ, unless indicated
specifically to the contrary, conventional methods of molecular biology and recombinant
DNA techniques within the skill of the art, many of which are described below for the
purpose of illustration. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See, e.g.,
Sambrook, et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (2nd Edition, 1989); Maniatis
et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (1982); DNA Cloning: A Practical
Approach, vol. I & II (D. Glover, ed.); Oligonucleotide Synthesis (N. Gait, ed., 1984);
Nucleic Acid Hybridization (B. Hames & S. Higgins, eds., 1985); Transcription and
Translation (B. Hames & S. Higgins, eds., 1984); Animal Cell Culture (R. Freshney, ed.,
 1986); A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning (B. Perbal, ed., 1984).
                           All publications, patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entirety.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           -25
B.             Definitions
                           Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
the same meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which
the invention belongs. For the purposes of the present invention, the following terms are
defined below.
                           As used herein, the term "retrovirus" refers to an RNA virus that reverse
transcribes its genomic RNA into a linear double-stranded DNA copy and subsequently
covalently integrates its genomic DNA into a host genome. Retroviruses are a common
tool for gene delivery (Miller, 2000, Nature. 357: 455-460). Once the virus is integrated
into the host genome, it is referred to as a "provirus." The provirus serves as a template for
RNA polymerase II and directs the expression of RNA molecules which encode the
structural proteins and enzymes needed to produce new viral particles.
                           Illustrative retroviruses include, but are not limited to: Moloney murine
leukemia virus (M-MuLV), Moloney murine sarcoma virus (MoMSV), Harvey murine
sarcoma virus (HaMuSV), murine mammary tumor virus (MuMTV), gibbon ape leukemia
virus (GaLV), feline leukemia virus (FLV), spumavirus, Friend murine leukemia virus,
Murine Stem Cell Virus (MSCV) and Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV)) and lentivirus.
                           As used herein, the term "lentivirus" refers to a group (or genus) of complex
retroviruses. Illustrative lentiviruses include, but are not limited to: HIV (human
immunodeficiency virus; including HIV type 1, and HIV type 2); visna-maedi virus
(VMV) virus; the caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus (CAEV); equine infectious anemia
virus (EIAV); feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV); bovine immune deficiency virus
(BIV); and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). In one embodiment, HIV based vector
backbones (i.e., HIV cis-acting sequence elements) are preferred.
                           Retroviral vectors and more particularly lentiviral vectors may be used in
practicing the present invention. Accordingly, the term "retrovirus" or "retroviral vector",
as used herein is meant to include "lentivirus" and "lentiviral vectors" respectively.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 26
                            The term "vector" is used herein to refer to a nucleic acid molecule capable
transferring or transporting another nucleic acid molecule. The transferred nucleic acid is
generally linked to, e.g., inserted into, the vector nucleic acid molecule. A vector may
include sequences that direct autonomous replication in a cell, or may include sequences
sufficient to allow integration into host cell DNA. Useful vectors include, for example,
plasmids (e.g., DNA plasmids or RNA plasmids), transposons, cosmids, bacterial artificial
chromosomes, and viral vectors. Useful viral vectors include, e.g., replication defective
retroviruses and lentiviruses.
                            As will be evident to one of skill in the art, the term "viral vector" is widely
used to refer either to a nucleic acid molecule (e.g., a transfer plasmid) that includes virus
derived nucleic acid elements that typically facilitate transfer of the nucleic acid molecule
or integration into the genome of a cell or to a viral particle that mediates nucleic acid
transfer. Viral particles will typically include various viral components and sometimes also
host cell components in addition to nucleic acid(s).
                            The term viral vector may refer either to a virus or viral particle capable of
transferring a nucleic acid into a cell or to the transferred nucleic acid itself. Viral vectors
and transfer plasmids contain structural and/or functional genetic elements that are
primarily derived from a virus. The term "retroviral vector" refers to a viral vector or
plasmid containing structural and functional genetic elements, or portions thereof, that are
primarily derived from a retrovirus. The term "lentiviral vector" refers to a viral vector or
plasmid containing structural and functional genetic elements, or portions thereof,
including LTRs that are primarily derived from a lentivirus. The term "hybrid" refers to a
vector, LTR or other nucleic acid containing both retroviral, e.g., lentiviral, sequences and
non-lentiviral viral sequences. In one embodiment, a hybrid vector refers to a vector or
transfer plasmid comprising retroviral e.g., lentiviral, sequences for reverse transcription,
replication, integration and/or packaging.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 27
                           In particular embodiments, the terms "lentiviral vector," "lentiviral
expression vector" may be used to refer to lentiviral transfer plasmids and/or infectious
lentiviral particles. Where reference is made herein to elements such as cloning sites,
promoters, regulatory elements, heterologous nucleic acids, etc., it is to be understood that
the sequences of these elements are present in RNA form in the lentiviral particles of the
invention and are present in DNA form in the DNA plasmids of the invention.
                           At each end of the provirus are structures called "long terminal repeats" or
"LTRs." The term "long terminal repeat (LTR)" refers to domains of base pairs located at
the ends of retroviral DNAs which, in their natural sequence context, are direct repeats and
contain U3, R and U5 regions. LTRs generally provide functions fundamental to the
expression of retroviral genes (e.g., promotion, initiation and polyadenylation of gene
transcripts) and to viral replication. The LTR contains numerous regulatory signals
including transcriptional control elements, polyadenylation signals and sequences needed
for replication and integration of the viral genome. The viral LTR is divided into three
regions called U3, R and U5. The U3 region contains the enhancer and promoter elements.
The U5 region is the sequence between the primer binding site and the R region and
contains the polyadenylation sequence. The R (repeat) region is flanked by the U3 and U5
regions. The LTR composed of U3, R and U5 regions and appears at both the 5' and 3'
ends of the viral genome. Adjacent to the 5' LTR are sequences necessary for reverse
transcription of the genome (the tRNA primer binding site) and for efficient packaging of
viral RNA into particles (the Psi site).
                           As used herein, the term "packaging signal" or "packaging sequence" refers
to sequences located within the retroviral genome which are required for insertion of the
viral RNA into the viral capsid or particle, see e.g., Clever et al., 1995. J. of Virology, Vol.
69, No. 4; pp. 2101-2109. Several retroviral vectors use the minimal packaging signal
(also referred to as the psi [IMequence) needed f or encapsidation of the viral genome.
Thus, as used herein, the terms "packaging sequence," "packaging signal," "psi" and the

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 28
symbol "P are used in reference to the non -coding sequence required for encapsidation of
retroviral RNA strands during viral particle formation.
                           In various embodiments, vectors comprise modified 5' LTR and/or 3' LTRs.
Modifications of the 3' LTR are often made to improve the safety of lentiviral or retroviral
systems by rendering viruses replication-defective. As used herein, the term "replication
defective" refers to virus that is not capable of complete, effective replication such that
infective virions are not produced (e.g., replication-defective lentiviral progeny). The term
"replication-competent" refers to wild-type virus or mutant virus that is capable of
replication, such that viral replication of the virus is capable of producing infective virions
(e.g., replication-competent lentiviral progeny).
                           "Self-inactivating" (SIN) vectors refers to replication-defective vectors, e.g.,
retroviral or lentiviral vectors, in which the right (3') LTR enhancer-promoter region,
known as the U3 region, has been modified (e.g., by deletion or substitution) to prevent
viral transcription beyond the first round of viral replication. This is because the right (3')
LTR U3 region is used as a template for the left (5') LTR U3 region during viral replication
and, thus, the viral transcript cannot be made without the U3 enhancer-promoter. In a
further embodiment of the invention, the 3' LTR is modified such that the U5 region is
replaced, for example, with an ideal poly(A) sequence. It should be noted that
modifications to the LTRs such as modifications to the 3' LTR, the 5' LTR, or both 3' and 5'
LTRs, are also included in the invention.
                           An additional safety enhancement is provided by replacing the U3 region of
the 5' LTR with a heterologous promoter to drive transcription of the viral genome during
production of viral particles. Examples of heterologous promoters which can be used
include, for example, viral simian virus 40 (SV40) (e.g., early or late), cytomegalovirus
(CMV) (e.g., immediate early), Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV), Rous sarcoma
virus (RSV), and herpes simplex virus (HSV) (thymidine kinase) promoters. Typical
promoters are able to drive high levels of transcription in a Tat-independent manner. This

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 29
replacement reduces the possibility of recombination to generate replication-competent
virus because there is no complete U3 sequence in the virus production system. In certain
embodiments, the heterologous promoter has additional advantages in controlling the
manner in which the viral genome is transcribed. For example, the heterologous promoter
can be inducible, such that transcription of all or part of the viral genome will occur only
when the induction factors are present. Induction factors include, but are not limited to,
one or more chemical compounds or the physiological conditions such as temperature or
pH, in which the host cells are cultured.
                            In some embodiments, viral vectors comprise a TAR element. The term
"TAR" refers to the "trans-activation response" genetic element located in the R region of
lentiviral (e.g., HIV) LTRs. This element interacts with the lentiviral trans-activator (tat)
genetic element to enhance viral replication. However, this element is not required in
embodiments wherein the U3 region of the 5' LTR is replaced by a heterologous promoter.
                            The "R region" refers to the region within retroviral LTRs beginning at the
start of the capping group (i.e., the start of transcription) and ending immediately prior to
the start of the poly A tract. The R region is also defined as being flanked by the U3 and
U5 regions. The R region plays a role during reverse transcription in permitting the
transfer of nascent DNA from one end of the genome to the other.
                            As used herein, the term "FLAP element" refers to a nucleic acid whose
sequence includes the central polypurine tract and central termination sequences (cPPT and
CTS) of a retrovirus, e.g., HIV-1 or HIV-2. Suitable FLAP elements are described in U.S.
Pat. No. 6,682,907 and in Zennou, et al., 2000, Cell, 101:173. During HIV-1 reverse
transcription, central initiation of the plus-strand DNA at the central polypurine tract
(cPPT) and central termination at the central termination sequence (CTS) lead to the
formation of a three-stranded DNA structure: the HIV-1 central DNA flap. While not
wishing to be bound by any theory, the DNA flap may act as a cis-active determinant of
lentiviral genome nuclear import and/or may increase the titer of the virus. In particular

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 30
embodiments, the retroviral or lentiviral vector backbones comprise one or more FLAP
elements upstream or downstream of the heterologous genes of interest in the vectors. For
example, in particular embodiments a transfer plasmid includes a FLAP element. In one
embodiment, a vector of the invention comprises a FLAP element isolated from HIV- 1.
                            In one embodiment, retroviral or lentiviral transfer vectors comprise one or
more export elements. The term "export element" refers to a cis-acting post-transcriptional
regulatory element which regulates the transport of an RNA transcript from the nucleus to
the cytoplasm of a cell. Examples of RNA export elements include, but are not limited to,
the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) rev response element (RRE) (see e.g., Cullen et
al., 1991. J. Virol. 65: 1053; and Cullen et al., 1991. Cell 58: 423), and the hepatitis B virus
post-transcriptional regulatory element (HPRE). Generally, the RNA export element is
placed within the 3' UTR of a gene, and can be inserted as one or multiple copies.
                            In particular embodiments, expression of heterologous sequences in viral
vectors is increased by incorporating posttranscriptional regulatory elements, efficient
polyadenylation sites, and optionally, transcription termination signals into the vectors. A
variety of posttranscriptional regulatory elements can increase expression of a heterologous
nucleic acid at the protein, e.g., woodchuck hepatitis virus posttranscriptional regulatory
element (WPRE; Zufferey et al., 1999, J. Virol., 73:2886); the posttranscriptional
regulatory element present in hepatitis B virus (HPRE) (Huang et al., Mol. Cell. Biol.,
5:3864); and the like (Liu et al., 1995, Genes Dev., 9:1766). In particular embodiments,
vectors of the invention lack or do not comprise a posttranscriptional regulatory element
such as a WPRE or HPRE because in some instances these elements increase the risk of
cellular transformation and/or do not substantially or significantly increase the amount of
mRNA transcript or increase mRNA stability. Therefore, in some embodiments, vectors of
the invention lack or do not comprise a WPRE or HPRE as an added safety measure.
                            Elements directing the efficient termination and polyadenylation of the
heterologous nucleic acid transcripts increases heterologous gene expression.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           -31
Transcription termination signals are generally found downstream of the polyadenylation
signal. In particular embodiments, vectors comprise a polyadenylation sequence 3'of a
polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide to be expressed. The term "polyA site" or "polyA
sequence" as used herein denotes a DNA sequence which directs both the termination and
polyadenylation of the nascent RNA transcript by RNA polymerase II. Polyadenylation
sequences can promote mRNA stability by addition of a polyA tail to the 3'end of the
coding sequence and thus, contribute to increased translational efficiency. Efficient
polyadenylation of the recombinant transcript is desirable as transcripts lacking a poly A
tail are unstable and are rapidly degraded. Illustrative examples of polyA signals that can
be used in a vector of the invention, includes an ideal polyA sequence (e.g., AATAAA,
ATTAAA AGTAAA), a bovine growth hormone polyA sequence (BGHpA), a rabbit 1
globin polyA sequence (ropA), or another suitable heterologou s or endogenous polyA
sequence known in the art.
                           In certain embodiments, a retroviral or lentiviral vector further comprises
one or more insulator elements. Insulators elements may contribute to protecting
lentivirus-expressed sequences, e.g., therapeutic polypeptides, from integration site effects,
which may be mediated by cis-acting elements present in genomic DNA and lead to
deregulated expression of transferred sequences (i.e., position effect; see, e.g., Burgess
Beusse et al., 2002, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci., USA, 99:16433; and Zhan et al., 2001, Hum.
Genet., 109:471).. In some embodiments, transfer vectors comprise one or more insulator
element the 3'LTR and upon integration of the provirus into the host genome, the provirus
comprises the one or more insulators at both the 5'LTR or 3'LTR, by virtue of duplicating
the 3'LTR. Suitable insulators for use in the inventio n include, but are not limited to, the
chicken p-globin insulator (see Chung et al., 1993. Cell 74:505; Chung et al., 1997. PNAS
94:575; and Bell et al., 1999. Cell 98:387, incorporated by reference herein). Examples of
insulator elements include, but are not limited to, an insulator from an             p-globin locus, such
as chicken HS4.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 32
                           According to certain specific embodiments of the invention, most or all of
the viral vector backbone sequences are derived from a lentivirus, e.g., HIV-1. However, it
is to be understood that many different sources of lentiviral sequences can be used, and
numerous substitutions and alterations in certain of the lentiviral sequences may be
accommodated without impairing the ability of a transfer vector to perform the functions
described herein. Moreover, a variety of lentiviral vectors are known in the art, see Naldini
et al., (1996a, 1996b, and 1998); Zufferey et al., (1997); Dull et al., 1998, U.S. Pat. Nos.
6,013,516; and 5,994,136, many of which may be adapted to produce a viral vector or
transfer plasmid of the present invention.
                           As used herein, the terms "polynucleotide" or "nucleic acid" refers to
messenger RNA (mRNA), RNA, genomic RNA (gRNA), plus strand RNA (RNA(+)),
minus strand RNA (RNA(-)), genomic DNA (gDNA), complementary DNA (cDNA) or
DNA. Polynucleotides include single and double stranded polynucleotides. Preferably,
polynucleotides of the invention include polynucleotides or variants having at least about
50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100%
sequence identity to any of the reference sequences described herein (see, e.g., Sequence
Listing), typically where the variant maintains at least one biological activity of the
reference sequence. In various illustrative embodiments, the present invention
contemplates, in part, viral vector and transfer plasmid polynucleotide sequences and
compositions comprising the same. In particular embodiments, the invention provides
polynucleotides encoding one or more therapeutic polypeptides and/or other genes of
interest.
                           As used herein, the terms "polynucleotide variant" and "variant" and the
like refer to polynucleotides displaying substantial sequence identity with a reference
polynucleotide sequence or polynucleotides that hybridize with a reference sequence under
stringent conditions that are defined hereinafter. These terms include polynucleotides in
which one or more nucleotides have been added or deleted, or replaced with different

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 33
nucleotides compared to a reference polynucleotide. In this regard, it is well understood in
the art that certain alterations inclusive of mutations, additions, deletions and substitutions
can be made to a reference polynucleotide whereby the altered polynucleotide retains the
biological function or activity of the reference polynucleotide.
                            As used herein, the term "isolated" means material, e.g., a polynucleotide, a
polypeptide, a cell, that is substantially or essentially free from components that normally
accompany it in its native state. In particular embodiments, the term "obtained" or
"derived" is used synonymously with isolated. For example, an "isolated polynucleotide,"
as used herein, refers to a polynucleotide that has been purified from the sequences which
flank it in a naturally-occurring state, e.g., a DNA fragment that has been removed from the
sequences that are normally adjacent to the fragment.
                            Terms that describe the orientation of polynucleotides include: 5' (normally
the end of the polynucleotide having a free phosphate group) and 3' (normally the end of
the polynucleotide having a free hydroxyl (OH) group). Polynucleotide sequences can be
annotated in the 5' to 3' orientation or the 3' to 5' orientation.
                            The terms "complementary" and "complementarity" refer to
polynucleotides (i.e., a sequence of nucleotides) related by the base-pairing rules. For
example, the complementary strand of the DNA sequence 5' A G T C A T G 3' is 3' T C A
G T A C 5'. The latter sequence is often written as the reverse complement with the 5' end
on the left and the 3' end on the right, 5' C A T G A C T 3'. A sequence that is equal to its
reverse complement is said to be a palindromic sequence. Complementarity can be
"partial," in which only some of the nucleic acids' bases are matched according to the base
pairing rules. Or, there can be "complete" or "total" complementarity between the nucleic
acids.
                            The term "nucleic acid cassette" as used herein refers to genetic sequences
within the vector which can express an RNA, and subsequently a polypeptide. In one
embodiment, the nucleic acid cassette contains a gene(s)-of-interest, e.g., a

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 34
polynucleotide(s)-of-interest. In another embodiment, the nucleic acid cassette contains
one or more expression control sequences and a gene(s)-of-interest, e.g., a
polynucleotide(s)-of-interest. Vectors may comprise one, two, three, four, five or more
nucleic acid cassettes. The nucleic acid cassette is positionally and sequentially oriented
within the vector such that the nucleic acid in the cassette can be transcribed into RNA, and
when necessary, translated into a protein or a polypeptide, undergo appropriate post
translational modifications required for activity in the transformed cell, and be translocated
to the appropriate compartment for biological activity by targeting to appropriate
intracellular compartments or secretion into extracellular compartments. Preferably, the
cassette has its 3' and 5' ends adapted for ready insertion into a vector, e.g., it has restriction
endonuclease sites at each end. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the nucleic
acid cassette contains the sequence of a therapeutic gene used to treat, prevent, or
ameliorate a genetic disorder, such as a hematopoietic disorder. The cassette can be
removed and inserted into a plasmid or viral vector as a single unit.
                           Polynucleotides include a polynucleotide(s)-of-interest. As used herein, the
term "polynucleotide(s)-of-interest" refers to one or more polynucleotides, e.g., a
polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide (i.e., a polypeptide-of-interest), inserted into an
expression vector that is desired to be expressed. In preferred embodiments, vectors and/or
plasmids of the present invention comprise one or more polynucleotides-of-interest or other
polynucleotide sequences that encode a polypeptide whose expression is desired, e.g., a
truncated erythropoietin receptor. In certain embodiments, a polynucleotide-of-interest
encodes a polypeptide that provides a therapeutic effect in the treatment, prevention, or
amelioration of a disease or disorder, which may be referred to as a "therapeutic
polypeptide," e.g., a globin gene. See, e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 2-4, 6-9, 11-13, and 15.
                           The term "globin" is used here to mean all proteins or protein subunits that
are capable of covalently or noncovalently binding a heme moiety, and can therefore
transport or store oxygen. Subunits of vertebrate and invertebrate hemoglobins, vertebrate

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 35
and invertebrate myoglobins or mutants thereof are included by the term globin. Examples
of globins include a.-globin or variant thereof, p-globin or variant thereof, a y-globin or a
variant thereof, and 6-globin.
                           In one embodiment, the polynucleotide-of-interest is a gene that encodes a
polypeptide that provides a therapeutic function for the treatment of a hemoglobinopathy,
e.g., a.-globin, 3-globin or P-globinA-T8 7 Q. Polynucleotides-of-interest, and polypeptides
encoded therefrom, include both polynucleotides that encode wild-type polypeptides, as
well as functional variants and fragments thereof. In particular embodiments, a functional
variant has at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 99% identity to a
corresponding wild-type reference polynucleotide or polypeptide sequence. In certain
embodiments, a functional variant or fragment has at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%,
at least 80%, or at least 90% of a biological activity of a corresponding wild-type
polypeptide. Representative polynucleotides sequences suitable for use in the present
invention include, but are not limited to, polynucleotides encoding a-globin,             p-globin, p
            A-T87
globin         -T7Q,    and various truncated erythropoietin receptors, e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 20, 21, 23,
24, 26, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33, 35, and 36.
                           The polynucleotides of the present invention, regardless of the length of the
coding sequence itself, may be combined with other DNA sequences, such as promoters
and/or enhancers, untranslated regions (UTRs), Kozak sequences, polyadenylation signals,
additional restriction enzyme sites, multiple cloning sites, internal ribosomal entry sites
(IRES), recombinase recognition sites (e.g., LoxP, FRT, and Att sites), termination codons,
transcriptional termination signals, and polynucleotides encoding self-cleaving
polypeptides, epitope tags, as disclosed elsewhere herein or as known in the art, such that
their overall length may vary considerably. It is therefore contemplated that a
polynucleotide fragment of almost any length may be employed, with the total length
preferably being limited by the ease of preparation and use in the intended recombinant
DNA protocol.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 36
                           The term "expression control sequence" refers to a polynucleotide sequence
that comprises one or more promoters, enhancers, or other transcriptional control elements
or combinations thereof that are capable of directing, increasing, regulating, or controlling
the transcription or expression of an operatively linked polynucleotide. In particular
embodiments, vectors of the invention comprise one or more expression control sequences
that are specific to particular cells, cell types, or cell lineages e.g., target cells; that is,
expression of polynucleotides operatively linked to an expression control sequence specific
to particular cells, cell types, or cell lineages is expressed in target cells and not in other
non-target cells. Each one of the one or more expression control sequences in a vector that
are cell specific may express in the same or different cell types depending on the therapy
desired. In preferred embodiments, vectors comprise one or more expression control
sequences specific to hematopoietic cells, e.g., hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells. In
other preferred embodiments, vectors comprise one or more expression control sequences
specific to erythroid cells.
                           The term "promoter" as used herein refers to a recognition site of a
polynucleotide (DNA or RNA) to which an RNA polymerase binds. The term "enhancer"
refers to a segment of DNA which contains sequences capable of providing enhanced
transcription and in some instances can function independent of their orientation relative to
another control sequence. An enhancer can function cooperatively or additively with
promoters and/or other enhancer elements. The term "promoter/enhancer" refers to a
segment of DNA which contains sequences capable of providing both promoter and
enhancer functions.
                           In particular embodiments, a vector of the invention comprises exogenous,
endogenous, or heterologous control sequences such as promoters and/or enhancers. An
"endogenous" control sequence is one which is naturally linked to a given gene in the
genome. An "exogenous" control sequence is one which is placed in juxtaposition to a
gene by means of genetic manipulation (i.e., molecular biological techniques) such that

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 37
transcription of that gene is directed by the linked enhancer/promoter. A "heterologous"
control sequence is an exogenous sequence that is from a different species than the cell
being genetically manipulated.
                           The term "operably linked", refers to a juxtaposition wherein the
components described are in a relationship permitting them to function in their intended
manner. In one embodiment, the term refers to a functional linkage between a nucleic acid
expression control sequence (such as a promoter, and/or enhancer or other expression
control sequence) and a second polynucleotide sequence, e.g., a polynucleotide-of-interest,
wherein the expression control sequence directs transcription of the nucleic acid
corresponding to the second sequence.
                           As used herein, the term "constitutive expression control sequence" refers to
a promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer that continually or continuously allows for
transcription of an operably linked sequence. A constitutive expression control sequence
may be a "ubiquitous" promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer that allows expression in
a wide variety of cell and tissue types or a "cell specific," "cell type specific," "cell lineage
specific," or "tissue specific" promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer that allows
expression in a restricted variety of cell and tissue types, respectively. Illustrative
ubiquitous expression control sequences include, but are not limited to, a cytomegalovirus
(CMV) immediate early promoter, a viral simian virus 40 (SV40) (e.g., early or late), a
Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV) LTR promoter, a Rous sarcoma virus (RSV)
LTR, a herpes simplex virus (HSV) (thymidine kinase) promoter, H5, P7.5, and P11
promoters from vaccinia virus, an elongation factor 1-alpha (EFl a) promoter, early growth
response 1 (EGR1), ferritin H (FerH), ferritin L (FerL), Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate
dehydrogenase (GAPDH), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A1 (EIF4A1), heat
shock 70kDa protein 5 (HSPA5), heat shock protein 90kDa beta, member 1 (HSP90B 1),
heat shock protein 70kDa (HSP70), 3-kinesin (-KIN), the human ROSA 26 locus (Irions
et al., Nature Biotechnology 25, 1477 - 1482 (2007)), a Ubiquitin C promoter (UBC), a

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                  - 38
phosphoglycerate kinase-1 (PGK) promoter, a cytomegalovirus enhancer/chicken                            p-actin
(CAG) promoter, and a                    p-actin promoter.
                           In a particular embodiment, it may be desirable to use a cell, cell type, cell
lineage or tissue specific expression control sequence to achieve cell type specific, lineage
specific, or tissue specific expression of a desired polynucleotide sequence (e.g., to express
a particular nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide in only a subset of cell types, cell lineages,
or tissues or during specific stages of development). Illustrative examples of cell, cell type,
cell lineage or tissue specific expression control sequences include, but are not limited to:
an B29 promoter (B cell expression), a runt transcription factor (CBFa2) promoter (stem
cell expression), an CD14 promoter (monocytic cell expression), an CD43 promoter
(leukocyte and platelet expression), an CD45 promoter (hematopoietic cell expression), an
CD68 promoter (macrophage expression), an endoglin promoter (endothelial cell
expression), a fms-related tyrosine kinase 1 (FLT1) promoter (endothelial cell expression),
an integrin, alpha 2b (ITGA2B) promoter (megakaryocyte expression), an intracellular
adhesion molecule 2 (ICAM-2) promoter (endothelial cell expression), an interferon beta
(IFN-Spromoter (hematopoietic cell expression), a                         P -globin LCR (erythroid cell
expression), a globin promoter (erythroid cell expression), a                      p-globin promoter (erythroid
cell expression), an a.-globin HS40 enhancer (erythroid cell expression), an ankyrin-1
promoter (erythroid cell expression), and a Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP)
promoter (hematopoietic cell expression).
                           In one embodiment, a vector of the present invention comprises one or more
cell or tissue specific promoters and/or enhancers selected from the group consisting of: a
human          P-globin promoter;             a human      p-globin  LCR; and a human U-globin HS40 enhancer
and an ankyrin-1 promoter.
                           As used herein, "conditional expression" may refer to any type of
conditional expression including, but not limited to, inducible expression; repressible
expression; expression in cells or tissues having a particular physiological, biological, or

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 39
disease state, etc. This definition is not intended to exclude cell type or tissue specific
expression. Certain embodiments of the invention provide conditional expression of a
polynucleotide-of-interest, e.g., expression is controlled by subjecting a cell, tissue,
organism, etc., to a treatment or condition that causes the polynucleotide to be expressed or
that causes an increase or decrease in expression of the polynucleotide encoded by the
polynucleotide-of-interest.
                           Illustrative examples of inducible promoters/systems include, but are not
limited to, steroid-inducible promoters such as promoters for genes encoding
glucocorticoid or estrogen receptors (inducible by treatment with the corresponding
hormone), metallothionine promoter (inducible by treatment with various heavy metals),
MX-1 promoter (inducible by interferon), the "GeneSwitch" mifepristone-regulatable
system (Sirin et al., 2003, Gene, 323:67), the cumate inducible gene switch (WO
2002/088346), tetracycline-dependent regulatory systems, etc.
                           Conditional expression can also be achieved by using a site specific DNA
recombinase. According to certain embodiments of the invention the vector comprises at
least one (typically two) site(s) for recombination mediated by a site specific recombinase.
As used herein, the terms "recombinase" or "site specific recombinase" include excisive or
integrative proteins, enzymes, co-factors or associated proteins that are involved in
recombination reactions involving one or more recombination sites (e.g., two, three, four,
five, seven, ten, twelve, fifteen, twenty, thirty, fifty, etc.), which may be wild-type proteins
(see Landy, Current Opinion in Biotechnology 3:699-707 (1993)), or mutants, derivatives
(e.g., fusion proteins containing the recombination protein sequences or fragments thereof),
fragments, and variants thereof. Illustrative examples of recombinases suitable for use in
particular embodiments of the present invention include, but are not limited to: Cre, Int,
IHF, Xis, Flp, Fis, Hin, Gin, W31, Cin, Tn3 resolv ase, TndX, XerC, XerD, TnpX, Hjc,
Gin, SpCCEl, and ParA.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 40
                           The vectors may comprise one or more recombination sites for any of a
wide variety of site specific recombinases. It is to be understood that the target site for a
site specific recombinase is in addition to any site(s) required for integration of a vector,
e.g., a retroviral vector or lentiviral vector. As used herein, the terms "recombination
sequence," "recombination site," or "site specific recombination site" refer to a particular
nucleic acid sequence to which a recombinase recognizes and binds.
                           For example, one recombination site for Cre recombinase is loxP which is a
34 base pair sequence comprising two 13 base pair inverted repeats (serving as the
recombinase binding sites) flanking an 8 base pair core sequence (see FIG. 1 of Sauer, B.,
Current Opinion in Biotechnology 5:521-527 (1994)). Other exemplary loxP sites include,
but are not limited to: lox511 (Hoess et al., 1996; Bethke and Sauer, 1997), lox5171 (Lee
and Saito, 1998), lox2272 (Lee and Saito, 1998), m2 (Langer et al., 2002), lox71 (Albert et
al., 1995), and lox66 (Albert et al., 1995).
                           Suitable recognition sites for the FLP recombinase include, but are not
limited to: FRT (McLeod, et al., 1996), F1 ,F2 , F3 (Schlake and Bode, 1994), F4 ,F5 (Schlake
and Bode, 1994), FRT(LE) (Senecoff et al., 1988), FRT(RE) (Senecoff et al., 1988).
                           Other examples of recognition sequences are the attB, attP, attL, and attR
sequences, which are recognized by the recombinase enzyme Antegrase,                  e.g., phi-c3 1.
The pC31 SSR mediates recombination only between the heterotypic sites attB (34 bp in
length) and attP (39 bp in length) (Groth et al., 2000). attB and attP, named for the
attachment sites for the phage integrase on the bacterial and phage genomes, respectively,
both contain imperfect inverted repeats that are likely bound by PC31 homodimers (Groth
et al., 2000). The product sites, attL and attR, are effectively inert to further pC3 1
mediated recombination (Belteki et al., 2003), making the reaction irreversible. For
catalyzing insertions, it has been found that attB-bearing DNA inserts into a genomic attP
site more readily than an attP site into a genomic attB site (Thyagaraj an et al., 2001;
Belteki et al., 2003). Thus, typical strategies position by homologous recombination an

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 41
attP-bearing "docking site" into a defined locus, which is then partnered with an attB
bearing incoming sequence for insertion.
                           As used herein, an "internal ribosome entry site" or "IRES" refers to an
element that promotes direct internal ribosome entry to the initiation codon, such as ATG,
of a cistron (a protein encoding region), thereby leading to the cap-independent translation
of the gene. See, e.g., Jackson et al., 1990. Trends Biochem Sci 15(12):477-83) and Jackson
and Kaminski. 1995. RNA 1(10):985-1000. In particular embodiments, the vectors
contemplated by the invention, include one or more polynucleotides-of-interest that encode
one or more polypeptides. In particular embodiments, to achieve efficient translation of
each of the plurality of polypeptides, the polynucleotide sequences can be separated by one
or more IRES sequences or polynucleotide sequences encoding self-cleaving polypeptides.
                           As used herein, the term "Kozak sequence" refers to a short nucleotide
sequence that greatly facilitates the initial binding of mRNA to the small subunit of the
ribosome and increases translation. The consensus Kozak sequence is (GCC)RCCATGG,
where R is a purine (A or G) (Kozak, 1986. Cell. 44(2):283-92, and Kozak, 1987. Nucleic
Acids Res. 15(20):8125-48). In particular embodiments, the vectors contemplated by the
invention, comprise polynucleotides that have a consensus Kozak sequence and that encode
a desired polypeptide.
                           In certain embodiments, vectors comprise a selection gene, also termed a
selectable marker. Typical selection genes encode proteins that (a) confer resistance to
antibiotics or other toxins, e.g., ampicillin, neomycin, hygromycin, methotrexate, Zeocin,
Blastocidin, or tetracycline, (b) complement auxotrophic deficiencies, or (c) supply critical
nutrients not available from complex media, e.g., the gene encoding D-alanine racemase
for Bacilli. Any number of selection systems may be used to recover transformed cell
lines. These include, but are not limited to, the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase
(Wigler et al., 1977. Cell 11:223-232) and adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (Lowy et al.,
 1990. Cell 22:817-823) genes which can be employed in tk- or aprt- cells, respectively.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 42
                           In various embodiments, vectors of the invention are used to increase,
establish and/or maintain the expression of one or more polypeptides, e.g., globins, EpoRs,
in cell. The terms "polypeptide" and "protein" are used interchangeably herein to refer to a
polymer of amino acid residues and to variants and synthetic analogues of the same. Thus,
these terms apply to amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residues are
synthetic non-naturally occurring amino acids, such as a chemical analogue of a
corresponding naturally occurring amino acid, as well as to naturally-occurring amino acid
polymers.
                           Particular embodiments of the invention also include polypeptide "variants."
The recitation polypeptide "variant" refers to polypeptides that are distinguished from a
reference polypeptide by the addition, deletion, truncations, and/or substitution of at least
one amino acid residue, and that retain a biological activity. In certain embodiments, a
polypeptide variant is distinguished from a reference polypeptide by one or more
substitutions, which may be conservative or non-conservative, as known in the art.
                           In certain embodiments, a variant polypeptide includes an amino acid
sequence having at least about 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%,                    9
                                                                                            0%, 91%,
92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more sequence identity or similarity to a
corresponding sequence of a reference polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the amino
acid additions or deletions occur at the C-terminal end and/or the N-terminal end of the
reference polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the amino acid deletions include C
terminal truncations of about 1, about 2, about 3, about 4, about 5, about 6, about 7, about
8, about 9, about 10, about 15, about 20, about 25, about 30, about 35, about 40, about 45,
50, about 55, about 60, about 65, about 70, about 75, about 80, about 85, about 90, about
95, about 100, about 105, about 110, about 115, about 120, about 125, about 130, about
 135, about 140, about 145, about 150, about 155, about 160, about 165, about 170, or about
 175 or more amino acids, including all intervening numbers of amino acids, e.g., 25, 26,
27,29,30 ... 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105 ... 170, 171, 172, 173, 174, etc.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 43
                           As noted above, polypeptides of the invention may be altered in various
ways including amino acid substitutions, deletions, truncations, and insertions. Methods
for such manipulations are generally known in the art. For example, amino acid sequence
variants of a reference polypeptide can be prepared by mutations in the DNA. Methods for
mutagenesis and nucleotide sequence alterations are well known in the art. See, for
example, Kunkel (1985, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 82: 488-492), Kunkel et al., (1987,
Methods in Enzymol, 154: 367-382), U.S. Pat. No. 4,873,192, Watson, J. D. et al.,
(MolecularBiology of the Gene, Fourth Edition, Benjamin/Cummings, Menlo Park, Calif.,
 1987) and the references cited therein. Guidance as to appropriate amino acid substitutions
that do not affect biological activity of the protein of interest may be found in the model of
Dayhoff et al., (1978) Atlas ofProteinSequence and Structure (Natl. Biomed. Res. Found.,
Washington, D.C.).
                           A "host cell" includes cells transfected, infected, or transduced in vivo, ex
vivo, or in vitro with a recombinant vector or a polynucleotide of the invention. Host cells
may include packaging cells, producer cells, and cells infected with viral vectors. In
particular embodiments, host cells infected with viral vector of the invention are
administered to a subject in need of therapy. In certain embodiments, the term "target cell"
is used interchangeably with host cell and refers to transfected, infected, or transduced cells
of a desired cell type. In preferred embodiments, the target cell is a hematopoietic cell,
e.g., a hematopoietic stem or progenitor cell.
                           Large scale viral particle production is often necessary to achieve a
reasonable viral titer. Viral particles are produced by transfecting a transfer vector into a
packaging cell line that comprises viral structural and/or accessory genes, e.g., gag, pol,
env, tat, rev, vif, vpr, vpu, vpx, or nef genes or other retroviral genes.
                           As used herein, the term "packaging vector" refers to an expression vector
or viral vector that lacks a packaging signal and comprises a polynucleotide encoding one,
two, three, four or more viral structural and/or accessory genes. Typically, the packaging

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 44
vectors are included in a packaging cell, and are introduced into the cell via transfection,
transduction or infection. Methods for transfection, transduction or infection are well
known by those of skill in the art. A retroviral/lentiviral transfer vector of the present
invention can be introduced into a packaging cell line, via transfection, transduction or
infection, to generate a producer cell or cell line. The packaging vectors of the present
invention can be introduced into human cells or cell lines by standard methods including,
e.g., calcium phosphate transfection, lipofection or electroporation. In some embodiments,
the packaging vectors are introduced into the cells together with a dominant selectable
marker, such as neomycin, hygromycin, puromycin, blastocidin, zeocin, thymidine kinase,
DHFR, Gln synthetase or ADA, followed by selection in the presence of the appropriate
drug and isolation of clones. A selectable marker gene can be linked physically to genes
encoding by the packaging vector, e.g., by IRES or self cleaving viral peptides.
                           Viral envelope proteins (env) determine the range of host cells which can
ultimately be infected and transformed by recombinant retroviruses generated from the cell
lines. In the case of lentiviruses, such as HIV-1, HIV-2, SIV, FIV and EIV, the env
proteins include gp41 and gpl20. Preferably, the viral env proteins expressed by
packaging cells of the invention are encoded on a separate vector from the viral gag and pol
genes, as has been previously described.
                           Illustrative examples of retroviral-derived env genes which can be employed
in the invention include, but are not limited to: MLV envelopes, 1OA1 envelope, BAEV,
FeLV-B, RD 114, SSAV, Ebola, Sendai, FPV (Fowl plague virus), and influenza virus
envelopes. Similarly, genes encoding envelopes from RNA viruses (e.g., RNA virus
families of Picornaviridae, Calciviridae, Astroviridae, Togaviridae, Flaviviridae,
Coronaviridae, Paramyxoviridae, Rhabdoviridae, Filoviridae, Orthomyxoviridae,
Bunyaviridae, Arenaviridae, Reoviridae, Birnaviridae, Retroviridae) as well as from the
DNA viruses (families of Hepadnaviridae, Circoviridae, Parvoviridae, Papovaviridae,
Adenoviridae, Herpesviridae, Poxyiridae, and Iridoviridae) may be utilized.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 45
Representative examples include , FeLV, VEE, HFVW, WDSV, SFV, Rabies, ALV, BIV,
BLV, EBV, CAEV, SNV, ChTLV, STLV, MPMV, SMRV, RAV, FuSV, MH2, AEV,
AMV, CT10, and EIAV.
                            In other embodiments, envelope proteins for pseudotyping a virus of present
invention include, but are not limited to any of the following virus: Influenza A such as
HiN1, HJN2, H3N2 and H5NJ (bird flu), Influenza B, Influenza C virus, Hepatitis A
virus, Hepatitis B virus, Hepatitis C virus, Hepatitis D virus, Hepatitis E virus, Rotavirus,
any virus of the Norwalk virus group, enteric adenoviruses, parvovirus, Dengue fever virus,
Monkey pox, Mononegavirales, Lyssavirus such as rabies virus, Lagos bat virus, Mokola
virus, Duvenhage virus, European bat virus 1 & 2 and Australian bat virus, Ephemerovirus,
Vesiculovirus, Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (VSV), Herpesviruses such as Herpes simplex
virus types 1 and 2, varicella zoster, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Bar virus (EBV), human
herpesviruses (HHV), human herpesvirus type 6 and 8, Human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV), papilloma virus, murine gammaherpesvirus, Arenaviruses such as Argentine
hemorrhagic fever virus, Bolivian hemorrhagic fever virus, Sabia-associated hemorrhagic
fever virus, Venezuelan hemorrhagic fever virus, Lassa fever virus, Machupo virus,
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), Bunyaviridiae such as Crimean-Congo
hemorrhagic fever virus, Hantavirus, hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome causing virus,
Rift Valley fever virus, Filoviridae (filovirus) including Ebola hemorrhagic fever and
Marburg hemorrhagic fever, Flaviviridae including Kaysanur Forest disease virus, Omsk
hemorrhagic fever virus, Tick-borne encephalitis causing virus and Paramyxoviridae such
as Hendra virus and Nipah virus, variola major and variola minor (smallpox), alphaviruses
such as Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus, eastern equine encephalitis virus, western
equine encephalitis virus, SARS-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV), West Nile virus, any
encephaliltis causing virus.
                            In one embodiment, the invention provides packaging cells which produce
recombinant retrovirus, e.g., lentivirus, pseudotyped with the VSV-G glycoprotein.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 46
                           The terms "pseudotype" or "pseudotyping" as used herein, refer to a virus
whose viral envelope proteins have been substituted with those of another virus possessing
preferable characteristics. For example, HIV can be pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis
virus G-protein (VSV-G) envelope proteins, which allows HIV to infect a wider range of
cells because HIV envelope proteins (encoded by the env gene) normally target the virus to
CD4+ presenting cells. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, lentiviral envelope
proteins are pseudotyped with VSV-G. In one embodiment, the invention provides
packaging cells which produce recombinant retrovirus, e.g., lentivirus, pseudotyped with
the VSV-G envelope glycoprotein.
                           As used herein, the term "packaging cell lines" is used in reference to cell
lines that do not contain a packaging signal, but do stably or transiently express viral
structural proteins and replication enzymes (e.g., gag, pol and env) which are necessary for
the correct packaging of viral particles. Any suitable cell line can be employed to prepare
packaging cells of the invention. Generally, the cells are mammalian cells. In a particular
embodiment, the cells used to produce the packaging cell line are human cells. Suitable cell
lines which can be used include, for example, CHO cells, BHK cells, MDCK cells, C3H
 1OT1/2 cells, FLY cells, Psi-2 cells, BOSC 23 cells, PA317 cells, WEHI cells, COS cells,
BSC 1 cells, BSC 40 cells, BMT 10 cells, VERO cells, W138 cells, MRC5 cells, A549
cells, HT1080 cells, 293 cells, 293T cells, B-50 cells, 3T3 cells, NIH3T3 cells, HepG2
cells, Saos-2 cells, Huh7 cells, HeLa cells, W163 cells, 211 cells, and 21 1A cells. In
preferred embodiments, the packaging cells are 293 cells, 293T cells, or A549 cells. In
another preferred embodiment, the cells are A549 cells.
                           As used herein, the term "producer cell line" refers to a cell line which is
capable of producing recombinant retroviral particles, comprising a packaging cell line and
a transfer vector construct comprising a packaging signal. The production of infectious
viral particles and viral stock solutions may be carried out using conventional techniques.
Methods of preparing viral stock solutions are known in the art and are illustrated by, e.g.,

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 47
Y. Soneoka et al. (1995) Nucl. Acids Res. 23:628-633, and N. R. Landau et al. (1992) J.
 Virol. 66:5110-5113. Infectious virus particles may be collected from the packaging cells
using conventional techniques. For example, the infectious particles can be collected by
cell lysis, or collection of the supernatant of the cell culture, as is known in the art.
Optionally, the collected virus particles may be purified if desired. Suitable purification
techniques are well known to those skilled in the art.
                           The delivery of a gene(s) or other polynucleotide sequence using a retroviral
or lentiviral vector by means of viral infection rather than by transfection is referred to as
"transduction." In one embodiment, retroviral vectors are transduced into a cell through
infection and provirus integration. In certain embodiments, a cell, e.g., a target cell, is
"transduced" if it comprises a gene or other polynucleotide sequence delivered to the cell
by infection using a viral or retroviral vector. In particular embodiments, a transduced cell
comprises one or more genes or other polynucleotide sequences delivered by a retroviral or
lentiviral vector in its cellular genome.
                           In particular embodiments, host cells transduced with viral vector of the
invention that expresses one or more polypeptides, are administered to a subject to treat
and/or prevent a hematopoietic disease, disorder, or condition. Other methods relating to
the use of viral vectors in gene therapy, which may be utilized according to certain
embodiments of the present invention, can be found in, e.g., Kay, M. A. (1997) Chest
 111(6 Supp.):138S-142S; Ferry, N. and Heard, J. M. (1998) Hum. Gene Ther. 9:1975-81;
Shiratory, Y. et al. (1999) Liver 19:265-74; Oka, K. et al. (2000) Curr. Opin. Lipidol.
 11:179-86; Thule, P. M. and Liu, J. M. (2000) Gene Ther. 7:1744-52; Yang, N. S. (1992)
Crit. Rev. Biotechnol. 12:335-56; Alt, M. (1995) J. Hepatol. 23:746-58; Brody, S. L. and
Crystal, R. G. (1994) Ann. N. Y Acad. Sci. 716:90-101; Strayer, D. S. (1999) Expert Opin.
Investig. Drugs 8:2159-2172; Smith-Arica, J. R. and Bartlett, J. S. (2001) Curr. Cardiol.
Rep. 3:43-49; and Lee, H. C. et al. (2000) Nature 408:483-8.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 48
                           By "enhance" or "promote," or "increase" or "expand" refers generally to
the ability of a vector of the invention or host cell transduced with a vector of the invention
to produce, elicit, or cause a greater physiological response (i.e., downstream effects) in a
particular cell type or specific cell lineage compared to the response caused by either
vehicle or a control molecule/composition, or in other cell types or specific cell lineages.
A measurable physiological response may include an increase in cell expansion,
engraftment, viability, homing, and/or self-renewal, among others apparent from the
understanding in the art and the description herein. In one embodiment, wherein a
hematopoietic stem cell transduced with a vector of the invention gives rise to progenitor
cells, the increase comprises an increase in the number of progenitor cells of one lineage,
e.g., erythroid lineage, compared to other cell lineages. Increases in hematopoietic stem
and/or progenitor cell engraftment, viability, homing, self-renewal and/or in vivo
expansion, can be ascertained using methods known in the art, such as gene expression,
CFU-C assays, CFU-S assays, CAFC assays, and cell surface protein expression, among
others. An "increased" or "enhanced" amount is typically a "statistically significant"
amount, and may include an increase that is 1.1, 1.2, 1.5, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 15, 20, 30
or more times (e.g., 500, 1000 times) (including all integers and decimal points in between
and above 1, e.g., 1.5, 1.6, 1.7. 1.8, etc.) the response produced by vehicle, a control
composition, or the response in a particular cell lineage.
                           By "decrease" or "lower," or "lessen," or "reduce," or "abate" refers
generally to the ability of a vector of the invention or host cell transduced with a vector of
the invention to produce, elicit, or cause a lesser physiological response (i.e., downstream
effects) in a particular cell type or specific cell lineage compared to the response caused by
either vehicle or a control molecule/composition, or in other cell types or specific cell
lineages. A "decrease" or "reduced" amount is typically a "statistically significant"
amount, and may include an decrease that is 1.1, 1.2, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 30
or more times (e.g., 500, 1000 times) (including all integers and decimal points in between

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 49
and above 1, e.g., 1.5, 1.6, 1.7. 1.8, etc.) the response (reference response) produced by
vehicle, a control composition, or the response in a particular cell lineage.
                           By "maintain," or "preserve," or "maintenance," or "no change," or "no
substantial change," or "no substantial decrease" refers generally to the ability of a vector
of the invention or host cell transduced with a vector of the invention to produce, elicit, or
cause a lesser physiological response (i.e., downstream effects) in a cell, as compared to the
response caused by either vehicle, a control molecule/composition, or the response in a
particular cell lineage. A comparable response is one that is not significantly different or
measurable different from the reference response.
                           The articles "a, " "an, " and "the" are used herein to refer to one or to more
than one (i.e. to at least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example,
"an element" means one element or more than one element.
                           The use of the alternative (e.g., "or") should be understood to mean either
one, both, or any combination thereof of the alternatives. As used herein, the terms
"include" and "comprise" are used synonymously.
                           As used herein, the term "about" or "approximately" refers to a quantity,
level, value, number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or length that
varies by as much as 15%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 7%, 6%, 5%, 4%, 3%, 2% or 1% to a reference
quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or
length. In one embodiment, the term "about" or "approximately" refers a range of
quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or
length ± 15%,± 10%,± 9%, ± 8%, ± 7%, ± 6%, ± 5%,± 4%, ± 3%,± 2%, or ± 1% about a
reference quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount,
weight or length.
                           Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the
words "comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion
of a stated step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 50
step or element or group of steps or elements. By "consisting of' is meant including, and
limited to, whatever follows the phrase "consisting of" Thus, the phrase "consisting of'
indicates that the listed elements are required or mandatory, and that no other elements may
be present. By "consisting essentially of' is meant including any elements listed after the
phrase, and limited to other elements that do not interfere with or contribute to the activity
or action specified in the disclosure for the listed elements. Thus, the phrase "consisting
essentially of' indicates that the listed elements are required or mandatory, but that no
other elements are optional and may or may not be present depending upon whether or not
they affect the activity or action of the listed elements
                            Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment," "an
embodiment," "a particular embodiment," "a related embodiment,". "a certain
embodiment," "an additional embodiment," or "a further embodiment" or combinations
thereof means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection
with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention.
Thus, the appearances of the foregoing phrases in various places throughout this
specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the
particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in
one or more embodiments.
                            In the following description, certain specific details are set forth in order to
provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the invention. However, one
skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details.
In addition, it should be understood that the individual vectors, or groups of vectors,
derived from the various combinations of the structures and substituents described herein,
are disclosed by the present application to the same extent as if each vector or group of
vectors was set forth individually. Thus, selection of particular vector structures or
particular substituents is within the scope of the present disclosure.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           -51
C.             Viral Vectors
                           Retroviral and lentiviral vectors have been tested and found to be suitable
delivery vehicles for the stable introduction of genes of interest into the genome of a broad
range of target cells. The present invention contemplates, in part, gene therapy vectors that
can be used to deliver one or more genes to a cell, to both increase expression of the
polypeptide encoded by the gene in the cell and to increase or expand a particular
population or lineage of cells comprising the vector. In this way, the vectors of the
invention offer numerous therapeutic, prophylatic, and ameliorative advantages compared
to existing vectors that do not simultaneously increase polypeptide expression in a cell and
increase specific cell lineages comprising the vector.
                           The present invention further provides transfer vectors, which may be used
to practice methods of the present invention. While the skilled artisan will appreciate that
such transfer vectors may be produced using a variety of different viral vectors, in
particular embodiments, the transfer vector is a retroviral vector or a lentiviral vector, in
part since lentiviral vectors are capable of providing efficient delivery, integration and long
term expression of transgenes into non-dividing cells both in vitro and in vivo. A variety of
lentiviral vectors are known in the art, see Naldini et al., (1996a, 1996b, and 1998);
Zufferey et al., (1997); Dull et al., 1998, U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,013,516; and 5,994,136, any of
which may be adapted to produce a transfer vector of the present invention. In general,
these vectors are plasmid-based or virus-based, and are configured to carry the essential
sequences for transfer of a nucleic acid encoding a therapeutic polypeptide into a host cell.
                           In illustrative embodiments, the lentiviral vector is an HIV vector. Thus, the
vectors may be derived from human immunodeficiency-1 (HIV-1), human
immunodeficiency-2 (HIV-2), simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), feline
immunodeficiency virus (FIV), bovine immunodeficiency virus (BIV), Jembrana Disease
Virus (JDV), equine infectious anemia virus (EIAV), caprine arthritis encephalitis virus
(CAEV) and the like. HIV based vector backbones (i.e., HIV cis-acting sequence elements

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 52
and HIV gag, pol and rev genes) are generally be preferred in connection with most aspects
of the present invention in that HIV-based constructs are the most efficient at transduction
of human cells.
                           Although particular illustrative embodiments include more detailed
description of vectors, compositions and methods used to correct hematopoietic disorders,
e.g., hemoglobinopathies, the invention should not be considered to be limited by this
disclosure. One having skill in the art would readily appreciate that the principles
illustrated herein can be applied to gene therapy in other systems, e.g., nervous system,
including the eye, central nervous system, and peripheral nervous system; the circulatory
system; the muscular system; the skeletal system; organs, including the skin, heart, lungs,
pancreas, liver, kidney, intestine, and the like.
                           In one embodiment, the present invention provides vectors, e.g., lentiviral
vectors, that comprise an expression control sequence that directs expression of
polynucleotide-of-interest in a particular cell type or cell lineage, and another expression
control sequence operably linked to a truncated erythropoietin receptor. Without wishing
to be bound to any particular theory, the present invention contemplates, in part, that the
expression control sequence operatively linked to a truncated erythropoietin receptor, in the
presence of a suitable EpoR agonist, allows for an expansion of or an increase in cells
which express the truncated erythropoietin receptor. In addition, the use of a cell type or
cell lineage expression control sequence offers safety advantages in restricting
polynucleotide expression to a desired stage of cell differentiation in a single lineage; and
thus, vectors of the invention alleviate concerns dealing with ectopic expression of
polypeptides in undesired cells types.
                           In one embodiment, the expression control sequence operably linked to the
therapeutic gene or polynucleotide-of-interest need not be the same expression control
sequence or an expression control sequence that elicits expression in the same cell type or
cell lineage as the expression control sequence operably linked to the truncated

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 53
erythropoietin receptor. In another embodiment, the expression control sequence operably
linked to the therapeutic gene or polynucleotide-of-interest elicits expression in the same
cell type or cell lineage as a different expression control sequence operably linked to the
truncated erythropoietin receptor. In further embodiment, the expression control sequence
operably linked to the therapeutic gene or polynucleotide-of-interest elicits expression in
the same cell type or cell lineage is the same as the expression control sequence operably
linked to the truncated erythropoietin receptor.
                           In one non-limiting example, ubiquitous expression of the erythropoietin
receptor would allow for expanding or increasing the cells in which it is expressed, i.e., all
cells. Illustrative ubiquitous expression control sequences that direct ubiquitous expression
of the truncated erythropoietin receptor include, but are not limited to: a cytomegalovirus
immediate early gene promoter (CMV), an elongation factor 1 alpha promoter (EF1-), a
phosphoglycerate kinase-1 promoter (PGK), a ubiquitin-C promoter (UBQ-C), a
cytomegalovirus enhancer/chicken beta-actin promoter (CAG), polyoma enhancer/herpes
simplex thymidine kinase promoter (MCl), a beta actin promoter (-ACT),                  and a simian
virus 40 promoter (SV40).
                           In another non-limiting example, conditional expression of the
erythropoietin receptor would allow for expanding or increasing the cells in which it is
conditionally expressed.
                           In yet another non-limiting example, stem cell specific expression of the
truncated erythropoietin receptor would allow for expanding or increasing the stem cells
(and all cell lineages derived from the stem cells) in which it is expressed, e.g.,
hematopoietic stem cells. Illustrative stem cell specific expression control sequences that
direct stem cell specific expression of the truncated erythropoietin receptor include, but are
not limited to: an embryonic stem cell promoter, a neural stem cell promoter, a
mesenchymal stem cell promoter, a liver stem cell promoter, a pancreatic stem cell

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 54
promoter, a cardiac stem cell promoter, a kidney stem cell promoter, and a hematopoietic
stem cell promoter.
                           In yet another non-limiting example, a cell type or cell lineage specific
expression of the truncated erythropoietin receptor would allow for expanding or
increasing a particular cell type or cell lineage in which it is expressed, e.g., a target cell
type or cell lineage, compared to another cell type or cell lineage, e.g., a non-target cell
type or cell lineage. Illustrative cell type or cell lineage specific expression control
sequences that direct expression of the truncated erythropoietin receptor include, but are
not limited to: a hematopoietic stem cell promoter, a hematopoietic progenitor cell
promoter, a myeloid cell promoter, a lymphoid cell promoter, a thrombopoietic lineage
promoter, a mast cell promoter, an erythropoietic lineage promoter, a granulopoietic
lineage promoter, and a monocytopoietic lineage promoter.
                           Illustrative target cell lineages include the hematopoietic cell lineage, the
myeloid lineage, the lymphoid lineage, the thrombopoietic lineage, the erythropoietic
lineage, the granulopoietic lineage promoter, and the monocytopoietic lineage. In preferred
embodiments, the target cell lineage is the erythropoietic cell lineage.
                           Illustrative target cell types include hematopoietic stem cells, hematopoietic
progenitor cells, myeloid progenitors, lymphoid progenitors, thrombopoietic progenitors,
erythroid progenitors, granulopoietic progenitors, monocytopoietic progenitors,
megakaryoblasts, promegakaryocytes, megakaryocytes, thrombocytes/platelets,
proerythroblasts, basophilic erythroblasts, polychromatic erythroblasts, orthochromatic
erythroblasts, polychromatic erythrocytes, erythrocytes (RBCs), basophilic promyelocytes,
basophilic myelocytes, basophilic metamyelocytes, basophils, neutrophilic promyelocytes,
neutrophilic myelocytes, neutrophilic metamyelocytes, neutrophils, eosinophilic
promyelocytes, eosinophilic myelocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells, lymphoblasts,
prolymphocytes, natural killer (NK)-cells, small lymphocytes, T-lymphocytes, B
lymphocytes, plasma cells, and lymphoid dendritic cells. In preferred embodiments, the

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 55
target cell type is one or more erythroid cells, e.g., proerythroblast, basophilic erythroblast,
polychromatic erythroblast, orthochromatic erythroblast, polychromatic erythrocyte, and
erythrocyte (RBC).
                           In particular embodiments, a vector of the invention may be used to increase
expression of a polynucleotide, e.g., gene-of-interest in one or more or all hematopoietic
cells and amplify or increase the numbers of one or more cell types, e.g., hematopoietic
stem cell. In one embodiment, the vector comprises a hematopoietic cell promoter,
enhancer, or promoter/enhancer operably linked to a gene of interest and an ubiquitous
conditional, or cell type or cell lineage specific promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer
operably linked to a truncated erythropoietin receptor (tEpoR). In another embodiment, the
vector comprises one or more retroviral LTRs, a hematopoietic cell expression control
sequence operably linked to a gene of interest and an ubiquitous, conditional, or cell
lineage specific expression control sequence operably linked to a truncated erythropoietin
receptor (tEpoR).
                           Suitable cell type or cell lineage specific expression control sequences
include, but are not limited to hematopoietic cell expression control sequences, such as, for
example, a hematopoietic stem cell promoter, and a hematopoietic progenitor cell
promoter. In embodiments where expression of the gene of interest and/or tEpoR is
desired in one or more erythroid cells, a suitable hematopoietic cell expression control
sequence can include, but is not limited to, an erythroid cell specific promoter and
optionally an erythroid cell specific enhancer, a human                p-globin promoter, a human  p
globin LCR, or a human a.-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1 promoter.
                           The use of a cell type or cell lineage expression control sequence offers
safety advantages in restricting polynucleotide expression to this a desired stage of cell
differentiation in a single lineage; and thus, vectors of the invention alleviate concerns
dealing with ectopic expression of polypeptides in undesired cells types. In one
embodiment, the invention provides, a vector comprising one or more LTRs, a first

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                   - 56
erythroid cell specific expression control sequence operably linked to a gene of interest and
a second erythroid cell specific expression control sequence operably linked to a tEpoR.
The first and second erythroid cell specific expression control sequences can each be
independently selected from the group consisting of: a human                           p-globin promoter; a human
 3-globin LCR; and a human ca-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1 promoter.
                            In various embodiments, the design of the vector will be made with the goal
of treating, preventing, or ameliorating a particular hematopoietic disease, disorder, or
condition. For example, the present invention contemplates vectors for gene therapy of
hemoglobinopathies that comprise a gene of interest selected from the group consisting of:
human a-globin, human                      p-globin,        human 6-globin, and human y-globin, or biologically
variants or fragments thereof. In one embodiment, the globin gene is selected from the
group consisting of a wild type human                          P-globin gene, a deleted human  p-globin gene
comprising one or more deletions of intron sequences, and a mutated                          human p-globin gene
encoding at least one antisickling amino acid residue.
                            In a particular embodiment, wherein the condition being treated is a sickle
cell hemoglobinopathy, the gene of interest can be an antisickling protein. As used herein,
"antisickling protein" refers to a polypeptide that prevents or reverses the pathological
events leading to sickling of erythrocytes in sickle cell conditions. In one embodiment of
the invention, the transduced cells of the invention are used to deliver antisickling proteins
to a subject with a hemoglobinopathic condition. Antisickling proteins also include
mutated 3-globin genes comprising antisickling amino acid residues.
                            In a preferred embodiment, one such globin variant is the human JA -globin
gene encoding a threonine to glutamine mutation at codon 87 (PA-T87Q) or a human $4
globin gene. Other antisickling amino acid residues are known in the art and may be useful
in the present invention. For example, see U.S. Patent 6,051,402; U.S. Patent 5,861,488;
U.S. Patent 6,670,323; U.S. Patent 5,864,029; U.S. Patent 5,877,288; and Levasseur et al.,
Blood 102:4312-4319 (2003), which are herein incorporated by reference.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 57
                           In certain embodiments, a vector that comprising an erythroid specific
expression control sequence is used to treat, prevent, or ameliorate of a vast number of
disorders extending well beyond the hemoglobinopathies. Red blood cell precursors are a
useful cell population in which to express polypeptides that can be secreted into the
circulation and thus delivered systemically. An example of such in vivo protein delivery is
human Factor IX, a clotting factor that is missing in patients with Hemophilia B, see, e.g.,
A. H. Chang, et al., Molecular Therapy (2008), which is herein incorporated by reference.
                           In one embodiment, cells transduced with vectors of the invention can be
used as "factories" for protein secretion, in vitro, ex vivo, or in vivo. For example, a vector
comprising an erythroid cell specific expression control sequence can be used for large
scale in vitro production of proteins from erythroid cells differentiated from HSCs or from
embryonic stem cells.
                           Polynucleotides-of-interest that could be expressed in this way include, but
are not limited to: adenosine deaminase, the enzymes affected in lysosomal storage
diseases, apolipoprotein E, brain derived neurotropihic factor (BDNF), bone
morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP-2), bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP-6), bone
morphogenetic protein 7 (BMP-7), cardiotrophin 1 (CT-1), CD22, CD40, ciliary
neurotrophic factor (CNTF), CCL1-CCL28, CXCL1-CXCL17, CXCL1, CXCL2,
CX3CL1, vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF), dopamine, erythropoietin,
Factor IX, Factor VIII, epidermal growth factor (EGF), estrogen, FAS-ligand, fibroblast
growth factor 1 (FGF-1), fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2), fibroblast growth factor 4
(FGF-4), fibroblast growth factor 5 (FGF-5), fibroblast growth factor 6 (FGF-6), fibroblast
growth factor 1 (FGF-7), fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF-10), Flt-3, granulocyte colony
stimulating factor (G-CSF), granulocyte macrophage stimulating factor (GM-CSF), growth
hormone, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), interferon alpha (IFN-a), interferon beta (IFN
b), interferon gamma (IFNg), insulin, glucagon, insulin-like growth factor I(IGF-1),
insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF-2), interleukin 1 (IL-1), interleukin 2 (IL-2), interleukin 3

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 58
(IL-3), interleukin 4 (IL-4), interleukin 5 (IL-5), interleukin 6 (IL-6), interleukin 7 (IL-7),
interleukin 8 (IL-8), interleukin 9 (IL-9), interleukin 10 (IL-10), interleukin 11 (IL- 11),
interleukin 12 (IL-12), interleukin 13 (IL-13), interleukin 15 (IL-15), interleukin 17 (IL
 17), interleukin 19 (IL- 19), macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), monocyte
chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1), macrophage inflammatory protein 3a (MIP-3 a),
macrophage inflammatory protein 3b (MIP-3b), nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin 3
(NT-3), neurotrophin 4 (NT-4), parathyroid hormone, platelet derived growth factor AA
(PDGF-AA), platelet derived growth factor AB (PDGF-AB), platelet derived growth factor
BB (PDGF-BB), platelet derived growth factor CC (PDGF-CC), platelet derived growth
factor DD (PDGF-DD), RANTES, stem cell factor (SCF), stromal cell derived factor 1
(SDF-1), testosterone, transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-a), transforming growth
factor beta (TGF-b), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), Wntl, Wnt2, Wnt2b/13, Wnt3,
Wnt3a, Wnt4, Wnt5a, Wnt5b, Wnt6, Wnt7a, Wnt7b, Wnt7c, Wnt8, Wnt8a, Wnt8b, Wnt8c,
WntOa, WntOb, Wnt 11, Wnt14, Wntl5, or Wnt16, Sonic hedgehog, Desert hedgehog,
and Indian hedgehog.
                           In various embodiments, vectors of the invention comprise an expression
control sequence operably linked to a polynucleotide encoding a truncated erythropoietin
receptor.
                           In particular preferred embodiments, a vector of the invention comprises a
tEpoR having a C-terminal truncation that reduces the turnover of the tEpoR compared to
an endogenous erythropoietin receptor (EpoR), increases the half-life of the tEpoR
compared to an endogenous erythropoietin receptor (EpoR), and/or increases the duration
of mitogen activated signaling pathways, e.g., MAPK, JAK/STAT, PI3K, AKT, RAS.
Thus, upon binding an EpoR agonist the tEpoR leads to activation of mitogenic pathways
to increase cell proliferation or expansion of cells compared to EpoR expressing cells or
cells not expressing any EpoR. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory, it is
believed that binding of an EpoR agonist, e.g., erythropoietin (EPO), to an EpoR induces

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 59
dimerization of two receptor subunits and subsequent activation of the associated Janus
kinase (Jak)2 (Witthuhn et al., 1993). This leads to phosphorylation of several tyrosine
residues in EpoR and recruitment of SH2-containing proteins, which result in activation of
several cascades of signal transduction pathways, notably the Ras/extracellular signal
regulated kinase (Erk)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) (Torti et al., 1992)
pathway and the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase/Akt kinase pathway (Damen et al., 1995).
Jak2 also phosphorylates signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat)5 and Stat3
(Kirito et al., 1997), which then translocate to the nucleus to act as transcription factors and
mediate EpoR mitogenic effects.
                           Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory, the present invention
contemplates that expression of a truncated erythropoietin receptor in a cell offers a
proliferative advantage over a cell expressing full-length erythropoietin receptors or
expressing no erythropoietin receptors at all. tEpoR polypeptides are transported to the cell
surface more efficiently than the full-length EpoR. Moreover, the tEpoR polypeptides of
the invention lack one or more conserved tyrosine (Tyr) phosphorylation sites and/or
protein binding sites in the C-terminus. One consequence of a tEpoR is that the tEpoR is
still able to activate mitogenic pathways but is unable to efficiently recruit phosphatases
that normally rapidly dephosphorylate and down-regulate the expression of EpoR. The
result is increased intracellular signaling through the tEpoR compared to the normal EpoR,
and increased activation of mitogen activated pathways that increase cell proliferation or
expansion.
                           The amino acid sequences of representative full-length EpoRs are set forth
in SEQ ID NOs: 19, 22, 25, 28, 31, and 34. Truncated EpoRs can be made using
recombinant techniques known in the art. Particular truncated EpoR are made by inserting
a stop codon at or near a C-terminal Tyr residue; thus, removing or mutating the Tyr
residue in the process of creating a truncated EpoR.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 60
                           Illustrative human tEpoR receptors comprise one or more mutations
introducing a stop codon at or near, within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19, or 20 amino acids of a C-terminal Tyr residue. Exemplary C-terminal Tyr
residues include, Tyr (Y) 344, 402, 430,432, 444, 461, 465 and 480, as set forth in SEQ ID
NO: 22 (note that SEQ ID NO: 22 lacks the first 24 amino acids that constitute the
hydrophobic leader sequence of the full-length human EpoR set forth in SEQ ID NO: 19).
                           Illustrative murine tEpoR receptors comprise one or more mutations
introducing a stop codon at or near, within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19, or 20 amino acids of a C-terminal Tyr residue. Exemplary C-terminal Tyr
residues include, Tyr (Y) 343, 401, 429, 431, 442, 460, 464 and 479, as set forth in SEQ ID
NO: 28 (note that SEQ ID NO: 28 lacks the first 24 amino acids that constitute the
hydrophobic leader sequence of the full-length murine EpoR set forth in SEQ ID NO: 25).
                           Illustrative rat tEpoR receptors comprise one or more mutations introducing
a stop codon at or near, within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
or 20 amino acids of a C-terminal Tyr residue. Exemplary C-terminal Tyr residues include,
Tyr (Y) 343, 401, 429, 431, 442, 460, 464 and 479, as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 34 (note
that SEQ ID NO: 34 lacks the first 24 amino acids that constitute the hydrophobic leader
sequence of the full-length rat EpoR set forth in SEQ ID NO: 31).
                           Particular examples of biologically active truncated EpoRs include, but are
not limited to, C-terminally truncated EpoRs comprising or consisting of amino acids 1 to
335, 1to 336, 1to 337, 1to 338, 1to 339, 1to 340, 1to 341, ito 342, 1to 343, 1to 344, 1
to 345, 1to 346, 1to 347, 1to 348, 1to 349, 1to 350, 1to 351, 1to 352, 1to 353, 1to
354, 1to 355, 1to 356, 1to 357, 1to 358, 1to 359, 1to 360, 1to 361, ito 362, 1to 363, 1
to 364, 1to 365, 1to 366, 1to 367, 1to 368, 1to 369, 1to 370, 1to 371, 1to 372, 1to
373, 1to 374, 1to 375, 1to 376, 1to 377, 1to 378, 1to 379, ito 380, 1to 381, 1to 382, 1
to 383, 1to 384, 1to 385, 1to 386, 1to 387, 1to 388, 1to 389, 1to 390, 1to 391, 1to
392, 1to 393, 1to 394, 1to 395, 1to 396, 1to 397, 1to 398, 1to 399, ito 400, 1to 401, 1

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 61
to 402, 1to 403, 1to 404, 1to 405, 1to 406, 1to 407, 1to 408, 1to 409, 1to 410, 1to
411, 1 to412, 1 to413, 1 to414, 1 to415, 1 to416, 1 to417, 1 to418, 1 to419, 1 to420, 1
to 421, 1to 422, 1to 423, 1to 424, 1to 425, 1to 526, 1to 427, 1to 428, 1to 429, 1to
430, 1to 431, 1to 432, 1to 433, 1to 434, 1to 435, 1to 436, 1to 437, 1to 438, 1to 439, 1
to 440, 1to 441, 1to 442, 1to 443, 1to 444, 1to 445, 1to 446, 1to 447, 1to 448, 1to
449, 1to 450, 1to 451, 1to 452, 1to 453, 1to 454, 1to 455, 1to 456, 1to 457, 1to 458, 1
to 459, 1to 460, 1to 461, 1to 462, 1to 463, 1to 464, 1to 465, 1to 466, 1to 467, 1to
468, 1to 469, 1to 470, 1to 471, 1to 472, 1to 473, 1to 474, 1to 475, 1to 476, 1to 477, 1
to 478, 1to 479, 1to 480, 1to 481, 1to 482, 1to 483, 1to 484, 1to 485, 1to 486, 1to
487, 1to 488, 1to 489, 1to 490, 1to 491, 1to 492, 1to 493, 1to 494, 1to 495, 1to 496, 1
to 497, 1 to 498, 1 to 499, or 1 to 500 of the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:
 19, 22, 25, 28, 31, and 34, and variants thereof. In certain embodiments, a tEpoR
polypeptide of the invention comprises the minimal active fragment of a full-length EpoR
polypeptide capable of cell proliferation or cell expansion, in vitro, ex vivo, or in vivo.
                           Specific examples of tEpoR polypeptide variants include tEpoR
polypeptides, having one or more amino acid additions, deletions, or substitutions, e.g., at
C-terminal Tyr residue selected from the groups consisting of: Tyr (Y) 344, 402, 430,432,
444, 461, 465 and 480, as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 22 and Tyr (Y) 343, 401, 429, 431,
442, 460, 464 and 479, as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 28 or 34.
                           In a preferred embodiment, vectors of the invention comprise a tEpoR
comprising a C-terminal truncation of about 50 to about 60 amino acids, about 80 to about
90 amino acids, or about 85 to about 95 amino acids, or about 55, about 83, or about 91
amino acids.
                           In one embodiment, a vector of the invention comprises at least one
modified or unmodified retroviral LTR, e.g., lentiviral LTR, a 3-globin promoter and a 3
globin locus control region (LCR) operably linked to a gene of interest, an expression
control sequence operably linked to a truncated erythropoietin receptor (tEpoR). Suitable

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 62
modifications of the LTRs include, but are not limited to: replacement of the 5' LTR is
with a heterologous promoter, e.g., cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter, a Rous Sarcoma
Virus (RSV)promoter, a thymidine kinase promoter, or an Simian Virus 40 (SV40)
promoter; and one or more modifications, additions, and/or deletions of a 3' LTR as
discussed elsewhere herein.
                           In a particular embodiment, erythroid expression of a polynucleotide is
achieved using a human                    p-globin promoter, a p-globin LCR that comprises one or more of
DNAase I hypersensitive sites 2, 3 and 4 from the human p-globin LCR, and/or a human p
globin 3' enhancer element.
                           In various embodiments, a vector of the invention comprises one or more
elements selected from the group consisting of: a Psi packaging sequence ("), a central
polypurine tract/DNA flap (cPPT/FLAP), a retroviral export element, a posttranscriptional
regulatory element, an insulator element, a polyadenylation sequence, a selectable marker,
and a cell suicide gene, as discussed elsewhere herein.
                           In one embodiment, a vector comprises a left (5') retroviral LTR, a Psi
packaging sequence (4), central polypurine tract/D NA flap (cPPT/FLAP), a retroviral
export element, a 3-globin promoter, a 3-globin locus control region (LCR), and optionally
a 3'     p-globin       enhancer operably linked to a polynucleotide of interest, an erythroid cell
specific expression control sequence operably linked to a truncated erythropoietin receptor
(tEpoR), and a right (3') retroviral LTR that comprises one or more insulator elements, or a
polyadenylation sequence.
                           In particular embodiment, a vector of the invention is a lentiviral vector that
comprises a left (5') HIV-1 LTR, a Psi packaging sequence (f),                    an HIV-1 central
polypurine tract/DNA flap (cPPT/FLAP), a rev response element (RRE), a 3-globin
promoter, a 3-globin locus control region (LCR), and optionally a 3' -globin enhancer
operably linked to a polynucleotide of interest, an erythroid cell specific expression control
sequence operably linked to a truncated erythropoietin receptor (tEpoR), and a right (3')

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 63
retroviral LTR that comprises one or more insulator elements, and a rabbit              p-globin polyA
sequence (repA).
                           The skilled artisan would appreciate that many other different embodiments
can be fashioned from the existing embodiments of the invention, such that the therapeutic
transgene or gene of interest is expressed in a target cell type or cell lineage and that the
tEpoR is expressed in the same and/or a different target cell type or cell lineage to be
expanded.
D.             Compositions and Formulations
                           The present invention further includes pharmaceutical compositions
comprising transduced cells produced according to methods described herein and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier"
includes any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal
agents, isotonic and absorption delaying agents, and the like that are physiologically
compatible, including pharmaceutically acceptable cell culture media. In one embodiment,
a composition comprising a carrier is suitable for parenteral administration, e.g.,
intravascular (intravenous or intraarterial), intraperitoneal or intramuscular administration.
Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and
sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or
dispersion. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is
well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible
with the transduced cells, use thereof in the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention
is contemplated.
                           The compositions of the invention may comprise one or more polypeptides,
polynucleotides, vectors comprising same, transduced cells, etc., as described herein,
formulated in pharmaceutically-acceptable or physiologically-acceptable solutions for
administration to a cell or an animal, either alone, or in combination with one or more other

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 64
modalities of therapy. It will also be understood that, if desired, the compositions of the
invention may be administered in combination with other agents as well, such as, e.g.,
cytokines, growth factors, hormones, small molecules or various pharmaceutically-active
agents. There is virtually no limit to other components that may also be included in the
compositions, provided that the additional agents do not adversely affect the ability of the
composition to deliver the intended gene therapy.
                            In the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention, formulation of
pharmaceutically-acceptable excipients and carrier solutions is well-known to those of skill
in the art, as is the development of suitable dosing and treatment regimens for using the
particular compositions described herein in a variety of treatment regimens, including e.g.,
oral, parenteral, intravenous, intranasal, and intramuscular administration and formulation.
                            In certain circumstances it will be desirable to deliver the compositions
disclosed herein parenterally, intravenously, intramuscularly, or even intraperitoneally as
described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,543,158; U.S. Pat. No. 5,641,515 and U.S. Pat.
No. 5,399,363 (each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). Solutions
of the active compounds as free base or pharmacologically acceptable salts may be
prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant, such as hydroxypropylcellulose.
Dispersions may also be prepared in glycerol, liquid polyethylene glycols, and mixtures
thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use, these preparations
contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.
                            The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous
solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile
injectable solutions or dispersions (U.S. Pat. No. 5,466,468, specifically incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety). In all cases the form should be sterile and should be
fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It should be stable under the conditions of
manufacture and storage and should be preserved against the contaminating action of
microorganisms, such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 65
medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol (e.g., glycerol, propylene glycol,
and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like), suitable mixtures thereof, and/or vegetable
oils. Proper fluidity may be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating, such as
lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by
the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be facilitated by
various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol,
sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic
agents, for example, sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable
compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying
absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
                            For parenteral administration in an aqueous solution, for example, the
solution should be suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered
isotonic with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially
suitable for intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous and intraperitoneal administration. In
this connection, a sterile aqueous medium that can be employed will be known to those of
skill in the art in light of the present disclosure. For example, one dosage may be dissolved
in 1 ml of isotonic NaCl solution and either added to 1000 ml of hypodermoclysis fluid or
injected at the proposed site of infusion (see, e.g., Remington: The Science and Practice of
Pharmacy, 20th Edition. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2000). Some
variation in dosage will necessarily occur depending on the condition of the subject being
treated. The person responsible for administration will, in any event, determine the
appropriate dose for the individual subject. Moreover, for human administration,
preparations should meet sterility, pyrogenicity, and the general safety and purity standards
as required by FDA Office of Biologics standards.
                            Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active
compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with the various other
ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally,

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 66
dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a
sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other
ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation
of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum-drying and
freeze-drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional
desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution thereof.
                           The compositions disclosed herein may be formulated in a neutral or salt
form. Pharmaceutically-acceptable salts, include the acid addition salts (formed with the
free amino groups of the protein) and which are formed with inorganic acids such as, for
example, hydrochloric or phosphoric acids, or such organic acids as acetic, oxalic, tartaric,
mandelic, and the like. Salts formed with the free carboxyl groups can also be derived
from inorganic bases such as, for example, sodium, potassium, ammonium, calcium, or
ferric hydroxides, and such organic bases as isopropylamine, trimethylamine, histidine,
procaine and the like. Upon formulation, solutions will be administered in a manner
compatible with the dosage formulation and in such amount as is therapeutically effective.
The formulations are easily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as injectable
solutions, drug-release capsules, and the like.
                           As used herein, "carrier" includes any and all solvents, dispersion media,
vehicles, coatings, diluents, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption
delaying agents, buffers, carrier solutions, suspensions, colloids, and the like. The use of
such media and agents for pharmaceutical active substances is well known in the art.
Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active
ingredient, its use in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active
ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions.
                           The phrase "pharmaceutically-acceptable" refers to molecular entities and
compositions that do not produce an allergic or similar untoward reaction when
administered to a human. The preparation of an aqueous composition that contains a

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 67
protein as an active ingredient is well understood in the art. Typically, such compositions
are prepared as injectables, either as liquid solutions or suspensions; solid forms suitable
for solution in, or suspension in, liquid prior to injection can also be prepared. The
preparation can also be emulsified.
                            In certain embodiments, the compositions may be delivered by intranasal
sprays, inhalation, and/or other aerosol delivery vehicles. Methods for delivering genes,
polynucleotides, and peptide compositions directly to the lungs via nasal aerosol sprays has
been described e.g., in U.S. Pat. No. 5,756,353 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,804,212 (each
specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). Likewise, the delivery of
drugs using intranasal microparticle resins (Takenaga et al., 1998) and lysophosphatidyl
glycerol compounds (U.S. Pat. No. 5,725,871, specifically incorporated herein by reference
in its entirety) are also well-known in the pharmaceutical arts. Likewise, transmucosal
drug delivery in the form of a polytetrafluoroetheylene support matrix is described in U.S.
Pat. No. 5,780,045 (specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
                            In certain embodiments, the delivery may occur by use of liposomes,
nanocapsules, microparticles, microspheres, lipid particles, vesicles, optionally mixing with
CPP polypeptides, and the like, for the introduction of the compositions of the present
invention into suitable host cells. In particular, the compositions of the present invention
may be formulated for delivery either encapsulated in a lipid particle, a liposome, a vesicle,
a nanosphere, a nanoparticle or the like. The formulation and use of such delivery vehicles
can be carried out using known and conventional techniques. The formulations and
compositions of the invention may comprise one or more repressors and/or activators
comprised of a combination of any number of polypeptides, polynucleotides, and small
molecules, as described herein, formulated in pharmaceutically-acceptable or
physiologically-acceptable solutions (e.g., culture medium) for administration to a cell or
an animal, either alone, or in combination with one or more other modalities of therapy. It
will also be understood that, if desired, the compositions of the invention may be

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 68
administered in combination with other agents as well, such as, e.g., cells, other proteins or
polypeptides or various pharmaceutically-active agents.
                           In a particular embodiment, a formulation or composition according to the
present invention comprises a cell contacted with a combination of any number of
polypeptides, polynucleotides, and small molecules, as described herein.
                           In certain aspects, the present invention provides formulations or
compositions suitable for the delivery of viral vector systems (i.e., viral-mediated
transduction) including, but not limited to, retroviral (e.g., lentiviral) vectors.
                           Exemplary formulations for ex vivo delivery may also include the use of
various transfection agents known in the art, such as calcium phosphate, electoporation,
heat shock and various liposome formulations (i.e., lipid-mediated transfection).
Liposomes, as described in greater detail below, are lipid bilayers entrapping a fraction of
aqueous fluid. DNA spontaneously associates to the external surface of cationic liposomes
(by virtue of its charge) and these liposomes will interact with the cell membrane.
                           In certain aspects, the present invention provides pharmaceutically
acceptable compositions which comprise a therapeutically-effective amount of one or more
polynucleotides or polypeptides, as described herein, formulated together with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers (additives) and/or diluents (e.g., pharmaceutically
acceptable cell culture medium).
                           Particular embodiments of the invention may comprise other formulations,
such as those that are well known in the pharmaceutical art, and are described, for example,
in Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 20th Edition. Baltimore, MD:
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2000.
E.             Gene Therapy Methods
                           The retroviral vectors provide improved methods of gene therapy. As used
herein, the term "gene therapy" refers to the introduction of a polynucleotide into a cell's

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 69
genome that restores, corrects, or modifies the gene and/or expression of the gene. In
various embodiments, a viral vector of the invention comprises a hematopoietic expression
control sequence that expresses a therapeutic transgene encoding a polypeptide that
provides curative, preventative, or ameliorative benefits to a subject diagnosed with or that
is suspected of having monogenic disease, disorder, or condition or a disease, disorder, or
condition of the hematopoietic system. In addition, vectors of the invention comprise
another expression control sequence that expresses a truncated erythropoietin receptor in a
cell, in order to increase or expand a specific population or lineage of cells, e.g., erythroid
cells. The virus can infect and transduce the cell in vivo, ex vivo, or in vitro. In ex vivo and
in vitro embodiments, the transduced cells can then be administered to a subject in need of
therapy. The present invention contemplates that the vector systems, viral particles, and
transduced cells of the invention are be used to treat, prevent, and/or ameliorate a
monogenic disease, disorder, or condition or a disease, disorder, or condition of the
hematopoietic system in a subject, e.g., a hemoglobinopathy.
                           As used herein, "hematopoiesis," refers to the formation and development of
blood cells from progenitor cells as well as formation of progenitor cells from stem cells.
Blood cells include but are not limited to erythrocytes or red blood cells (RBCs),
reticulocytes, monocytes, neutrophils, megakaryocytes, eosinophils, basophils, B-cells,
macrophages, granulocytes, mast cells, thrombocytes, and leukocytes.
                           As used herein, the term "hemoglobinopathy" or "hemoglobinopathic
condition" includes any disorder involving the presence of an abnormal hemoglobin
molecule in the blood. Examples of hemoglobinopathies included, but are not limited to,
hemoglobin C disease, hemoglobin sickle cell disease (SCD), sickle cell anemia, and
thalassemias. Also included are hemoglobinopathies in which a combination of abnormal
hemoglobins are present in the blood (e.g., sickle cell/Hb-C disease).
                           The term "sickle cell anemia" or "sickle cell disease" is defined herein to
include any symptomatic anemic condition which results from sickling of red blood cells.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 70
Manifestations of sickle cell disease include: anemia; pain; and/or organ dysfunction, such
as renal failure, retinopathy, acute-chest syndrome, ischemia, priapism and stroke. As used
herein the term "sickle cell disease" refers to a variety of clinical problems attendant upon
sickle cell anemia, especially in those subjects who are homozygotes for the sickle cell
substitution in HbS. Among the constitutional manifestations referred to herein by use of
the term of sickle cell disease are delay of growth and development, an increased tendency
to develop serious infections, particularly due to pneumococcus, marked impairment of
splenic function, preventing effective clearance of circulating bacteria, with recurrent
infarcts and eventual destruction of splenic tissue. Also included in the term "sickle cell
disease" are acute episodes of musculoskeletal pain, which affect primarily the lumbar
spine, abdomen, and femoral shaft, and which are similar in mechanism and in severity to
the bends. In adults, such attacks commonly manifest as mild or moderate bouts of short
duration every few weeks or months interspersed with agonizing attacks lasting 5 to 7 days
that strike on average about once a year. Among events known to trigger such crises are
acidosis, hypoxia and dehydration, all of which potentiate intracellular polymerization of
HbS (J. H. Jandl, Blood: Textbook of Hematology, 2nd Ed., Little, Brown and Company,
Boston, 1996, pages 544-545). As used herein, the term "thalassemia" encompasses
hereditary anemias that occur due to mutations affecting the synthesis of hemoglobin.
Thus, the term includes any symptomatic anemia resulting from thalassemic conditions
such as severe or thalassemia, thalassemia major, thalassemia intermedia, dhalassemias
such as hemoglobin H disease.
                            As used herein, "thalassemia" refers to a hereditary disorder characterized
by defective production of hemoglobin. Examples of thalassemias include wnd                   P
thalassemia. phalassemias are caused by a mutatio n in the beta globin chain, and can
occur in a major or minor form. In the major form of thalassemia, children are normal at
birth, but develop anemia during the first year of life. The mild form of thalassemia

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                  - 71
produces small red blood cells a thalassemias are caused by deletion of a gene or genes
from the globin chain.
                           dhal assemia typically results from deletions involving the HBA1 and
HBA2 genes. Both of these genes encode a.-globin, which is a component (subunit) of
hemoglobin. There are two copies of the HBA1 gene and two copies of the HBA2 gene in
each cellular genome. As a result, there are four alleles that produce a-globin. The
different types of thalassemia result from the lo ss of some or all of these alleles. Hb Bart
syndrome, the most severe form of thalassemia, re sults from the loss of all four a-globin
alleles. HbH disease is caused by a loss of three of the four a-globin alleles. In these two
conditions, a shortage of a.-globin prevents cells from making normal hemoglobin. Instead,
cells produce abnormal forms of hemoglobin called hemoglobin Bart (Hb Bart) or
hemoglobin H (HbH). These abnormal hemoglobin molecules cannot effectively carry
oxygen to the body's tissues. The substitution of Hb Bart or HbH for normal hemoglobin
causes anemia and the other serious health problems associated with Uthalassem ia.
                           In a preferred embodiment, gene therapy methods of the invention are used
to treat, prevent, or ameliorate a hemoglobinopathy is selected from the group consisting
of: hemoglobin C disease, hemoglobin sickle cell disease (SCD), sickle cell anemia,
hereditary anemia, thalassemia,                        p-thalassemia,  thalassemia major, thalassemia intermedia,
a.-thalassemia, and hemoglobin H disease.
                           In various embodiments, the retroviral vectors are administered by direct
injection to a cell, tissue, or organ of a subject in need of gene therapy, in vivo. In various
other embodiments, cells are transduced in vitro or ex vivo with vectors of the invention,
and optionally expanded ex vivo. The transduced cells are then administered to a subject in
need of gene therapy.
                           Cells suitable for transduction and administration in the gene therapy
methods of the invention include, but are not limited to stem cells, progenitor cells, and
differentiated cells. In certain embodiments, the transduced cells are embryonic stem cells,

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 72
bone marrow stem cells, umbilical cord stem cells, placental stem cells, mesenchymal stem
cells, neural stem cells, liver stem cells, pancreatic stem cells, cardiac stem cells, kidney
stem cells, hematopoietic stem cells.
                            In various embodiments, the use of stem cells is preferred because they have
the ability to differentiate into the appropriate cell types when administered to a particular
biological niche, in vivo. The term "stem cell" refers to a cell which is an undifferentiated
cell capable of (1) long term self -renewal, or the ability to generate at least one identical
copy of the original cell, (2) differentiation at the single cell level into multiple, and in
some instance only one, specialized cell type and (3) of in vivo functional regeneration of
tissues. Stem cells are subclassified according to their developmental potential as
totipotent, pluripotent, multipotent and oligo/unipotent. "Self-renewal" refers a cell with a
unique capacity to produce unaltered daughter cells and to generate specialized cell types
(potency). Self-renewal can be achieved in two ways. Asymmetric cell division produces
one daughter cell that is identical to the parental cell and one daughter cell that is different
from the parental cell and is a progenitor or differentiated cell. Asymmetric cell division
does not increase the number of cells. Symmetric cell division produces two identical
daughter cells. "Proliferation" or "expansion" of cells refers to symmetrically dividing
cells.
                            As used herein, the term "pluripotent" means the ability of a cell to form all
lineages of the body or soma (i.e., the embryo proper). For example, embryonic stem cells
are a type of pluripotent stem cells that are able to form cells from each of the three germs
layers, the ectoderm, the mesoderm, and the endoderm. As used herein, the term
"multipotent" refers to the ability of an adult stem cell to form multiple cell types of one
lineage. For example, hematopoietic stem cells are capable of forming all cells of the
blood cell lineage, e.g., lymphoid and myeloid cells.
                            As used herein, the term "progenitor" or "progenitor cells" refers to cells
that have the capacity to self-renew and to differentiate into more mature cells. Progenitor

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 73
cells have a reduced potency compared to pluripotent and multipotent stem cells. Many
progenitor cells differentiate along a single lineage, but may also have quite extensive
proliferative capacity.
                            Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) give rise to committed hematopoietic
progenitor cells (HPCs) that are capable of generating the entire repertoire of mature blood
cells over the lifetime of an organism. The term "hematopoietic stem cell" or "HSC" refers
to multipotent stem cells that give rise to the all the blood cell types of an organism,
including myeloid (e.g., monocytes and macrophages, neutrophils, basophils, eosinophils,
erythrocytes, megakaryocytes/platelets, dendritic cells), and lymphoid lineages (e.g., T
cells, B-cells, NK-cells), and others known in the art (See Fei, R., et al., U.S. Patent No.
5,635,387; McGlave, et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,460,964; Simmons, P., et al., U.S. Patent No.
5,677,136; Tsukamoto, et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,750,397; Schwartz, et al., U.S. Patent No.
5,759,793; DiGuisto, et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,681,599; Tsukamoto, et al., U.S. Patent No.
5,716,827). When transplanted into lethally irradiated animals or humans, hematopoietic
stem and progenitor cells can repopulate the erythroid, neutrophil-macrophage,
megakaryocyte and lymphoid hematopoietic cell pool.
                            In preferred embodiments, the transduced cells are hematopoietic stem
and/or progenitor cells isolated from bone marrow, umbilical cord blood, or peripheral
circulation. In particular preferred embodiments, the transduced cells are hematopoietic
stem cells isolated from bone marrow, umbilical cord blood, or peripheral circulation.
                            HSCs may be identified according to certain phenotypic or genotypic
markers. For example, HSCs may be identified by their small size, lack of lineage (lin)
markers, low staining (side population) with vital dyes such as rhodamine 123
(rhodamineDULL, also called rholo) or Hoechst 33342, and presence of various antigenic
markers on their surface, many of which belong to the cluster of differentiation series (e.g.,
CD34, CD38, CD90, CD133, CD105, CD45, Terl 19, and c-kit, the receptor for stem cell

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 74
factor). HSCs are mainly negative for the markers that are typically used to detect lineage
commitment, and, thus, are often referred to as Lin(-) cells.
                           In one embodiment, human HSCs may be characterized as CD34+, CD59+,
Thy1/CD90+,CD38-0/, C-kit/CD1 17, and Lin(-). However, not all stem cells are covered
by these combinations, as certain HSCs are CD34^/CD38^. Also some studies suggest that
earliest stem cells may lack c-kit on the cell surface. For human HSCs, CD133 may
represent an early marker, as both CD34* and CD34- HSCs have been shown to be
CD133+. It is known in the art that CD34* and Lin(-) cells also include hematopoietic
progenitor cells.
                           In another embodiment, the hematopoietic hierarchy is determined by a
SLAM code. The SLAM (Signaling lymphocyte activation molecule) family is a group of
>10 molecules whose genes are located mostly tandemly in a single locus on chromosome
 1 (mouse), all belonging to a subset of immunoglobulin gene superfamily, and originally
thought to be involved in T-cell stimulation. This family includes CD48, CD150, CD244,
etc., CD150 being the founding member, and, thus, also called slamF1, i.e., SLAM family
member 1. The signature SLAM code for the hematopoietic hierarchy is hematopoietic
stem cells (HSC) - CD150+CD48-CD244-; multipotent progenitor cells (MPPs) - CD150^
CD48-CD244*; lineage-restricted progenitor cells (LRPs) - CD150^CD48*CD244*;
common myeloid progenitor (CMP) - lin-SCA- 1-c-kit*CD34*CD 1 6 / 3 2 mid; granulocyte
macrophage progenitor (GMP) - lin^SCA-1^c-kit*CD34+CD16/32 hi; and megakaryocyte
                                                                        low
erythroid progenitor (MEP) - lin^SCA-1^c-kit*CD34^CD16/32
                           In mice, Irving Weissman's group at Stanford University was the first to
isolate mouse hematopoietic stem cells in 1988 and was also the first to work out the
markers to distinguish the mouse hematopoietic hierarchy. The markers for the
hematopoietic hierarchy is long-term hematopoietic stem cells (LT-HSC) - CD34^, SCA-1
, Thyl.1+/O, C-kit*, lin^, CD135^, Slamfl/CD150+; short-term hematopoietic stem cells (ST
HSC) - CD34, SCA-1*, Thyl.1+/O, C-kit*, lin^, CD135^, Slamfl/CD150*, Mac-i

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 75
(CD 1l b)o; early multipotent progenitors - (Early MPP) - CD34*, SCA- I+, Thyl.1-, C-kit*,
lin-, CD135+, Slamfl/CD150-, Mac-I (CD Ilb)o, CD4O; and late multipotent progenitors
(Late MPP) - CD34*, SCA-l*, Thyl.1-, C-kit*, lin-, CD1 3 5high, Slamfl/CD150-, Mac-i
(CD 11b)O, CD4O.
                           In one embodiment, the hematopoietic cells are CD105+ Scal cells.
                           Cells of the invention can be autologous/autogeneic ("self") or non
autologous ("non-self," e.g., allogeneic, syngeneic or xenogeneic). "Autologous," as used
herein, refers to cells from the same subject. "Allogeneic," as used herein, refers to cells of
the same species that differ genetically to the cell in comparison. "Syngeneic," as used
herein, refers to cells of a different subject that are genetically identical to the cell in
comparison. "Xenogeneic," as used herein, refers to cells of a different species to the cell
in comparison. In preferred embodiments, the cells of the invention are allogeneic.
                           A "subject," as used herein, includes any animal that exhibits a symptom of
a monogenic disease, disorder, or condition that can be treated with the gene therapy
vectors, cell-based therapeutics, and methods disclosed elsewhere herein. In preferred
embodiments, a subject includes any animal that exhibits symptoms of a disease, disorder,
or condition of the hematopoietic system, e.g., a hemoglobinopathy, that can be treated
with the gene therapy vectors, cell-based therapeutics, and methods disclosed elsewhere
herein. Suitable subjects (e.g., patients) include laboratory animals (such as mouse, rat,
rabbit, or guinea pig), farm animals, and domestic animals or pets (such as a cat or dog).
Non-human primates and, preferably, human patients, are included. Typical subjects
include animals that exhibit aberrant amounts (lower or higher amounts than a "normal" or
"healthy" subject) of one or more physiological activities that can be modulated by gene
therapy.
                           As used herein "treatment" or "treating," includes any beneficial or
desirable effect on the symptoms or pathology of a disease or pathological condition, and
may include even minimal reductions in one or more measurable markers of the disease or

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 76
condition being treated. Treatment can involve optionally either the reduction or
amelioration of symptoms of the disease or condition, or the delaying of the progression of
the disease or condition. "Treatment" does not necessarily indicate complete eradication or
cure of the disease or condition, or associated symptoms thereof.
                           As used herein, "prevent," and similar words such as "prevented,"
"preventing" etc., indicate an approach for preventing, inhibiting, or reducing the
likelihood of the occurrence or recurrence of, a disease or condition. It also refers to
delaying the onset or recurrence of a disease or condition or delaying the occurrence or
recurrence of the symptoms of a disease or condition. As used herein, "prevention" and
similar words also includes reducing the intensity, effect, symptoms and/or burden of a
disease or condition prior to onset or recurrence of the disease or condition.
                           As used herein, the term "amount" refers to "an amount effective" or "an
effective amount" of a virus or transduced therapeutic cell to achieve a beneficial or desired
prophylactic or therapeutic result, including clinical results.
                           A "prophylactically effective amount" refers to an amount of a virus or
transduced therapeutic cell effective to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically
but not necessarily, since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier
stage of disease, the prophylactically effective amount is less than the therapeutically
effective amount.
                           A "therapeutically effective amount" of a virus or transduced therapeutic
cell may vary according to factors such as the disease state, age, sex, and weight of the
individual, and the ability of the stem and progenitor cells to elicit a desired response in the
individual. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or
detrimental effects of the virus or transduced therapeutic cells are outweighed by the
therapeutically beneficial effects. The term "therapeutically effective amount" includes an
amount that is effective to "treat" a subject (e.g., a patient).

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 77
                           In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of providing a
transduced cell to a subject that comprises administering, e.g., parenterally, one or more
cells transduced with a vector comprising a cell type or cell lineage specific promoter,
enhancer, or promoter/enhancer operably linked to a gene of interest and an ubiquitous
promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer or cell type or cell lineage specific promoter,
enhancer, or promoter/enhancer operably linked to a tEpoR, or another suitable vector of
the invention as discussed elsewhere herein.
                           In a particular embodiment, a method of treating a hemoglobinopathy in a
subject is provided. The method comprises administering a population of cells comprising
hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells transduced with a vector comprising a
hematopoietic cell specific promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer operably linked to a
gene of interest and an ubiquitous promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer or cell type or
cell lineage specific promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer operably linked to a tEpoR,
or another suitable vector of the invention as discussed elsewhere herein.
                           In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of selectively
expanding the number erythroid cells in a subject comprising administering a population of
cells comprising hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells transduced with a vector
comprising a hematopoietic cell specific promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer
operably linked to a gene of interest and an ubiquitous promoter, enhancer, or
promoter/enhancer or cell type or cell lineage specific promoter, enhancer, or
promoter/enhancer operably linked to a tEpoR, or another suitable vector of the invention
as discussed elsewhere herein, wherein the number of erythroid progeny cells of the
hematopoietic stem cells are expanded in the subject.
                           In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
increasing the proportion of red blood cells or erythrocytes compared to white blood cells
or leukocytes in a subject. The method comprises administering a population of cells
comprising hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells transduced with a vector comprising a

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 78
hematopoietic cell promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer operably linked to a gene of
interest and an ubiquitous promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer or cell type or cell
lineage specific promoter, enhancer, or promoter/enhancer operably linked to a tEpoR, or
another suitable vector of the invention as discussed elsewhere herein, wherein the
proportion of red blood cell progeny cells of the hematopoietic stem cells are increased
compared to white blood cell progeny cells of the hematopoietic stem cells in the subject.
                           In particular embodiments, the subject is not administered EPO, and the
efficacy of cell expansion mediated by the truncated EpoR is due to endogenous EPO
production in the subject. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory the present
invention contemplates, in part, that particular subjects that suffer from
hemoglobinopathies, such as thalassemias, for example, have constitutively high levels of
plasma EPO compared to normal subjects, e.g., about 15 fold, about 20 fold, about 30 fold,
about 40 fold, or about 50 fold or more. Thus, sufficiently high levels of EPO to increase
or expand the number of cells expressing a tEpoR about 5 fold, about 10 fold, about 25
fold, about 50 fold, about 75 fold, about 100 fold, about 150 fold, about 200 fold or about
250 fold or more compared to cells not expressing the tEpoR and/or expressing an
endogenous EpoR. In another embodiment, sufficiently high levels of EPO to increase or
expand the number of cells expressing a tEpoR at least 5 fold, at least 10 fold, at least 25
fold, at least 50 fold, at least 75 fold, at least 100 fold, at least 150 fold, at least 200 fold or
at least 250 fold or more compared to cells not expressing the tEpoR and/or expressing an
endogenous EpoR.
                           In certain embodiments, the subject is also administered an EpoR agonist,
e.g., EPO, in advance, concurrently with, and/or following administration of the transduced
cells. As used herein, the term "erythropoietin" or "EPO" refers to a glycoprotein
produced in the kidney, which is the principal hormone responsible for stimulating red
blood cell production (erythrogenesis). EPO stimulates the division and differentiation of
committed erythroid progenitors in the bone marrow. Normal plasma erythropoietin levels

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 79
range from 0.01 to 0.03 Units/mL, and can increase up to 100 to 1,000-fold during hypoxia
or anemia. Graber and Krantz, Ann. Rev. Med. 29:51 (1978); Eschbach and Adamson,
Kidney Intl. 28:1 (1985). Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo or epoietin alpha) is
commercially available as EPOGEN@ (epoietin alpha, recombinant human erythropoietin)
(Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, Calif.) and as PROCRIT@ (epoietin alpha, recombinant
human erythropoietin) (Ortho Biotech Inc., Raritan, N.J.).
                           In a preferred embodiment, the subject is administered EPO.
                           In illustrative embodiments, following administration of the transduced cells
to the subject, the subject is administered EPO every 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days, every week,
every other week, every month, every other month, every 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 months, or once
a year, or any intervening frequency of time, for the duration of treatment. In particular
illustrative embodiments, the dose of EPO administered to the subject is about 100 to about
50000 units (IU; international units)/week, about 200 to about 40000 IU/week, about 500
to about 30000 IU/week, about 1000 to about 40000 IU/week, about 1000 to about 30000
IU/week, about 1000 to about 20000 IU/week, about 5000 to about 40000 IU/week, about
5000 to about 30000 IU/week, about 5000 to about 20000 IU/week, about 10000 to about
40000 IU/week, about 10000 to about 30000 IU/week, about 10000 to about 20000
IU/week, or any intervening ranges of IU/week, without limitation.
                           In particular illustrative embodiments, the dose of EPO administered to the
subject is at least about 100 units/week, at least about 200 units/week, at least about 500
units/week, at least about 1000 units/week, at least about 5000 units/week, at least about
 10000 units/week, at least about 20000 units/week, at least about 30000 units/week, at least
about 40000 units/week, at least about 50000 units/week, or any intervening ranges of
IU/week, without limitation.
                           In particular illustrative embodiments, the dose of EPO administered to the
subject is about 1 to about 500 IU/kg of body weight/week, about 10 to about 500 IU/kg of
body weight/week, about 25 to about 500 IU/kg of body weight/week, about 50 to about

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 80
500 IU/kg of body weight/week, about 100 to about 500 IU/kg of body weight/week, about
 100 to about 250 IU/kg of body weight/week, about 250 to about 500 IU/kg of body
weight/week, or any intervening ranges of IU/kg of body weight/week, without limitation.
                            In particular illustrative embodiments, the dose of EPO administered to the
subject is at least about 1 IU/kg of body weight/week, at least about 10 IU/kg of body
weight/week, at least about 25 IU/kg of body weight/week, at least about 50 IU/kg of body
weight/week, at least about 75 IU/kg of body weight/week, at least about 100 IU/kg of
body weight/week, at least about 200 IU/kg of body weight/week, at least about 250 IU/kg
of body weight/week, at least about 300 IU/kg of body weight/week, at least about 350
IU/kg of body weight/week, at least about 400 IU/kg of body weight/week, at least about
500 IU/kg of body weight/week, or any intervening ranges of IU/kg of body weight/week,
without limitation.
                            In various method provided by the invention, expression of the tEpoR in the
presence of EPO or another EpoR agonist increases or expands the population of cells
expressing the tEpoR compared to cells that do not express the tEpoR and/or express the
normal EpoR. As noted elsewhere herein, an expression control sequence that expresses
the tEpoR receptor in all cells (ubiquitous or conditional expression), or in a particular cell
type or cell lineage will lead to expansion of the tEpoR expressing cells compared to cells
that do not express the tEpoR and/or express the normal EpoR.
                            Illustrative cells expanded using the vectors and methods of the present
invention include, but are not limited to: embryonic stem cells, bone marrow stem cells,
umbilical cord stem cells, placental stem cells, mesenchymal stem cells, neural stem cells,
liver stem cells, pancreatic stem cells, cardiac stem cells, kidney stem cells, hematopoietic
stem cells, hematopoietic progenitor cells, myeloid progenitors, lymphoid progenitors,
thrombopoietic progenitors, erythroid progenitors, granulopoietic progenitors,
monocytopoietic progenitors, megakaryoblasts, promegakaryocytes, megakaryocytes,
thrombocytes/platelets, proerythroblasts, basophilic erythroblasts, polychromatic

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 81
erythroblasts, orthochromatic erythroblasts, polychromatic erythrocytes, erythrocytes
(RBCs), basophilic promyelocytes, basophilic myelocytes, basophilic metamyelocytes,
basophils, neutrophilic promyelocytes, neutrophilic myelocytes, neutrophilic
metamyelocytes, neutrophils, eosinophilic promyelocytes, eosinophilic myelocytes,
macrophages, dendritic cells, lymphoblasts, prolymphocytes, natural killer (NK)-cells,
small lymphocytes, T-lymphocytes, B-lymphocytes, plasma cells, and lymphoid dendritic
cells. In preferred embodiments, the target cell type is one or more erythroid cells, e.g.,
proerythroblast, basophilic erythroblast, polychromatic erythroblast, orthochromatic
erythroblast, polychromatic erythrocyte, and erythrocyte (RBC).
                           In preferred embodiments, cells expanded using the vectors and methods of
the present invention include, but are not limited to: hematopoietic stem or progenitor
cells, proerythroblasts, basophilic erythroblasts, polychromatic erythroblasts,
orthochromatic erythroblasts, polychromatic erythrocytes, and erythrocytes (RBCs), or any
combination thereof.
                           In one embodiment, following EPO administration, the cells expressing a
tEpoR are expanded about 5 fold, about 10 fold, about 25 fold, about 50 fold, about 75
fold, about 100 fold, about 150 fold, about 200 fold or about 250 fold or more compared to
cells expressing the tEpoR in the subject before the administration of EPO or compared to
cells not expressing the tEpoR and/or expressing an endogenous EpoR.
                           In another embodiment, following EPO administration, the cells expressing
a tEpoR are expanded at least 5 fold, at least 10 fold, at least 25 fold, at least 50 fold, at
least 75 fold, at least 100 fold, at least 150 fold, at least 200 fold or at least 250 fold or
more compared to cells expressing the tEpoR in the subject before the administration of
EPO or compared to cells not expressing the tEpoR and/or expressing an endogenous
EpoR.
                           In a particular embodiment, following EPO administration, the erythroid
cells expressing a tEpoR are expanded about 5 fold, about 10 fold, about 25 fold, about 50

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 82
fold, about 75 fold, about 100 fold, about 150 fold, about 200 fold or about 250 fold or
more compared to erythroid cells expressing the tEpoR in the subject before the
administration of EPO or compared to non-erythroid cells comprising the tEpoR vector but
that does not express tEpoR.
                           In another embodiment, following EPO administration, the erythroid cells
expressing a tEpoR are expanded at least 5 fold, at least 10 fold, at least 25 fold, at least 50
fold, at least 75 fold, at least 100 fold, at least 150 fold, at least 200 fold or at least 250 fold
or more compared to erythroid cells expressing the tEpoR in the subject before the
administration of EPO or compared to non-erythroid cells comprising the tEpoR vector but
that does not express tEpoR.
                           Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory, an important
advantage provided by the vectors, compositions, and methods of the present invention is
the high efficacy of gene therapy that can be achieved by administering populations of cells
comprising lower percentages of transduced cells compared to existing methods. This
provides important safety advantages associated with reduced chances of deleterious
mutation, transformation, or oncogene activation of cellular genes in transduced cells.
                           The transduced cells may be administered as part of a bone marrow or cord
blood transplant in an individual that has or has not undergone bone marrow ablative
therapy. In one embodiment, transduced cells of the invention are administered in a bone
marrow transplant to an individual that has undergone chemoablative or radioablative bone
marrow therapy.
                           In one embodiment, a dose of transduced cells is delivered to a subject
intravenously. In preferred embodiments, transduced hematopoietic stem cells are
intravenously administered to a subject.
                           In particular embodiments, patients receive a dose of transduced cells, e.g.,
hematopoietic stem cells, of about 1 x 105 cells/kg, about 5 x 105 cells/kg, about 1 x 106
cells/kg, about 2 x 106 cells/kg, about 3 x 106 cells/kg, about 4 x 10 cells/kg, about 5 x 106

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 83
cells/kg, about 6 x 106 cells/kg, about 7 x 106 cells/kg, about 8 x 106 cells/kg, about 9 x 106
cells/kg, about 1 x 107 cells/kg, about 5 x 107 cells/kg, about 1 x 108 cells/kg, or more in
one single intravenous dose. In certain embodiments, patients receive a dose of transduced
cells, e.g., hematopoietic stem cells, of at least 1 x 105 cells/kg, at least 5 x 105 cells/kg, at
least 1 x 106 cells/kg, at least 2 x 106 cells/kg, at least 3 x 106 cells/kg, at least 4 x 106
cells/kg, at least 5 x 106 cells/kg, at least 6 x 106 cells/kg, at least 7 x 106 cells/kg, at least 8
x 106 cells/kg, at least 9 x 106 cells/kg, at least 1 x 107 cells/kg, at least 5 x 107 cells/kg, at
least 1 x 108 cells/kg, or more in one single intravenous dose.
                           In an additional embodiment, patients receive a dose of transduced cells,
e.g., hematopoietic stem cells, of about 1 x 105 cells/kg to about 1 x 108 cells/kg, about 1 x
 106     cells/kg to about l x 108 cells/kg, about 1 X 106 cells/kg to about 9 x 106 cells/kg, about
2 x 106 cells/kg to about 8 x 106 cells/kg, about 2 x 106 cells/kg to about 8 x 106 cells/kg,
about 2 x 106 cells/kg to about 5 x 106 cells/kg, about 3 x 106 cells/kg to about 5 x 106
cells/kg, about 3 x 106 cells/kg to about 4 x 108 cells/kg, or any intervening dose of
cells/kg.
                           In various embodiments, the methods of the invention provide more robust
and safe gene therapy than existing methods and comprise administering a population or
dose of cells comprising about 5% transduced cells, about 10% transduced cells, about
 15% transduced cells, about 20% transduced cells, about 25% transduced cells, about 30%
transduced cells, about 35% transduced cells, about 40% transduced cells, about 45%
transduced cells, or about 50% transduced cells, to a subject.
                           In one preferred embodiment, the invention provides transduced cells, such
as a stem cell, e.g., hematopoietic stem cell, with the potential to expand or increase a
population of erythroid cells. In particular embodiments, hematopoietic stem cells are
transduced with a vector of the invention and administered to an individual in need of
therapy for hemoglobinopathy. Hematopoietic stem cells are the origin of erythroid cells
and thus, are preferred.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                 - 84
                           In various embodiments, the vectors, compositions, and methods of the
present invention offer improved methods of gene therapy using ex vivo gene therapy and
autologous transplantation. In one non-limiting example, the present invention provides a
lentiviral vector that encodes human                       p-globin and a truncated erythropoietin receptor, both
under erythroid specific transcriptional control. This truncated receptor confers enhanced
sensitivity to erythropoietin and a benign proliferative advantage on cells expressing the
tEpoR in human carriers. Transplantation of cells transduced with the vector into subjects
having hemoglobinopathies, and either having elevated plasma EPO levels or administered
recombinant EPO, results in long-term correction of the disease even at low ratios of
transduced/untransduced cells.
                           The present invention now will be described more fully by the following
examples. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should
not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments
are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey
the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.
                                                             EXAMPLES
                                                             EXAMPLE 1
            CELL CULTURE, TRANSDUCTION, AND BONE MARROW CELL TRANSPLANTATION
                           Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), also termed 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) cells in
some embodiments, were obtained from bone marrow (BM) cells of male donor mice
injected 4 days previously with 150 mg/kg 5-FU (Sigma-Aldrich) and submitted to
Lympholyte-M density gradient purification (Cedarlane). In particular embodiments,
HSCs were purified from male mouse BM by sorting CD105+ Scal cells with the use of
magnetic beads (Miltenyi Biotec). Medullar lymphomyeloid and erythroid cells were
purified on the basis of the presence or absence of the CD45 antigen with magnetic beads

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 85
(Miltenyi Biotec). Purity was checked by cytometry with antibodies against CD45 and
Terl19 antigens.
                           Ecotropic pseudotyped retroviral vectors were generated by transient
transfection of BOSC23 cells using Fugene (Roche Diagnostics, Meylan, France).
Ecotropic retroviral vector titers were assessed by flow cytometry two days after NIH3T3
cells transduction. Recombinant lentiviral vectors pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis
virus glycoprotein-G were produced. Titers were about 2 x 108 transducing units per
milliliter of viral supernatant.
                           Before transduction, cells were washed and suspended at a final
concentration of 1-2 x 106 cells/mL in alpha-MEM medium (Invitrogen) containing 15%
FCS, 100 ng/mL recombinant mouse stem cell factor, 6.25 ng/mL interleukin-3, and 10
ng/mL interleukin-6 and grown at 37'C. All cytokines were from Peprotech. Recombinant
human erythropoietin (rhEpo; 3 U/mL; Roche Pharma) was added in erythroid cell culture.
                           Transduction of 5-FU cells with gammaretroviral vectors (RV) started 40
hours later. Cells were exposed twice, 24 hours apart, to undiluted retroviral supernatants
on Retronectin (Takara)-coated Petri dishes in alpha-MEM medium containing 8 g/mL
protamine sulfate (Sigma-Aldrich), decomplemented serum, and cytokines. Two days after
transduction, percentages of enhanced green fluorescent protein-(eGFP)-positive cells
(24%-32% as determined by flow cytometry and unchanged 4 days later) were set to 10%
with mock transduced cells. Four million cells (including 4 x 105 eGFP-expressing cells)
were injected intravenously in lethally irradiated              phalassemic female mice Hbb
                                                                                               th-1/th-1
                                                                                                 -1/t.   In
this experiment, MOI was 1 (twice). phalassemic recipients received 1100 rads (split
dose of 550 rads over 3 hours) of total body irradiation.
                           Cells were transduced with lentiviral vectors 16 hours after cell isolation. 5
FU cells were exposed to vectors on Retronectin-coated Petri dishes in StemPro-34 serum
free medium (Invitrogen) supplemented with protamine sulfate and cytokines. Six hours
later, cells were harvested by the use of trypsin-EDTA solution (Cambrex BioScience) and

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                 - 86
a cell scraper. A total of 500,000-750,000 transduced 5-FU cells were injected
intravenously into each                  phalassemic       female recipient given total body irr adiation.
                           In experiment 1, MOI was 20, and the phalassemic recipient received 600
rads (single dose).
                           In experiment 2, 3 groups of mice received cells transduced at MOI of 0.3,
2, or 10, respectively and 1100 rads (split dose of 550 rads over 3 hours). phalassemic
mice that underwent transplantation with cells transduced with the LG and the LG/HA-Yl
mice were called LG- and LG/HA-Yl mice, respectively.
                           In a third experiment, after a single irradiation dose of 200 rads, 4         B
thalassemic mice were injected with 25,000 CD105+ Scal cells each. Cells were
transduced with LG/HA-Yl at a MOI of 20. For in vitro studies, bone marrow erythroid
(CD45-) and lympho/myeloid (CD45*) cells were transduced with LG/HA-Yl at a MOI of
50. RNA was extracted 2 days later.
Blood parameters
                           Blood samples were analyzed for hemoglobin and blood cell counts with the
use of an automated cell counter (Cell Dyn 3700; Abbot Diagnostic). Hematocrit values
were obtained by the manual centrifugation method. The proportion of soluble hemoglobin
versus total hemoglobin was determined by the measurement of hemoglobin with the
Drabkin reagent (Sigma-Aldrich) in total hemolysate and in the supernatant of centrifuged
(5 minutes at 20,000g) hemolysate. Erythropoietin concentration was determined by use of
the Epo monoclonal enzyme immuno-assay kit (Medac Diagnostika) with human Epo
standards. Mouse and human hemoglobins were separated by cation-exchange HPLC.
Hemolysates were injected onto a PolyCAT A column (PolyLC Inc). Elution was achieved
with a linear gradient of 2 Tris buffers (buffer A: Tris 40mM, KCN 3mM adjusted to pH
6.5 with acetic acid; buffer B: Tris 40mM, KCN 3mM, NaCl 200mM adjusted to pH 6.5
with acetic acid) from 7% to 70% buffer B in 15 minutes. Hemoglobins were detected at
418 nm wavelength.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 87
Flow cytometrv
                           eGFP-positive WBCs were detected after RBC lysis and labeling with a
biotinylated antibody against CD45.2 (BD Biosciences) and streptavidin-Alexa Fluor 647
(Invitrogen). For the detection of intracellular human           p-globin, RBCs  were washed, fixed
for 30 minutes in 2% formaldehyde, permeabilized for 30 seconds in 50% methanol and
50% acetone, and stained with an FITC-labeled antibody that specifically recognizes
human HbA (PerkinElmerWallac). Myeloid and lymphoid BM cells were detected with
the biotinylated anti-CD45.2 and either a PE anti-mouse GR1/Macl, anti-mouse CD3, or
anti-mouse B220 (all from eBiosciences) followed by streptavidin-Alexa Fluor 647
labeling. Erythroid progenitor cells were identified by the use of anti-mouse Terl 19 and
CD71 antigens.
QuantitativePCR and RT-quantitativePCR analysis
                           Genomic DNA was extracted with the Nucleospin Blood kit (Macherey
Nagel). The fraction of donor male cells among leukocytes (D) and the vector copy
number (V) were determined by quantitative PCR, and results were compared with those
for serial dilutions of genomic DNA from male and female cells and of genomic DNA
from a mouse cell line containing one copy of an integrated vector per haploid genome.
Real-time PCRs were performed for 40 cycles with denaturation at 94'C for 15 seconds
and annealing and extension at 60'C for 1 minute after an activation step of 10 minutes at
95'C with use of the 7300 ABI Prism Detection system (Applied Biosystems) and a 2X
quantitative PCR (qPCR) MasterMix containing ROX (Eurogentec). Primers and probes
are described in Table 1.
Table 1. Primers and probes used for real-time PCR
Name                    Sequence or Taqman gene expression assay number*     Modification      Conc.
LV-GAGF                 5'GGAGCTAGAACGATTCGCAG TTA 3'                                          720nM
LV-GAGR                 5'GGTTGTAGCTGTCCCAGTATTTGTC 3'                                    _720nM
LV-                     5'ACAGCCTTCTGATGTCTCTAAAAGGCCAGG                     5'FAM             140nM
GAGP1                   3'                                                   3' TAMRA
mp-actinF1              5'ACGGCCAGGTCATCACTATTG 3'                                             900nM

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 88
mp-actinR1              5'CAAGAAGGAAGGCTGGAAAAGA 3'                                                900nM
mp-actinPl              5'CAACGAGCGGTTCC GATGCCCT 3'                           5'FAM               250nM
                                                                               3' TAMRA
SRY                     Mm00441712_s1                                          5'FAM               iX
                                                                               3'NFQ -MGB
EpoR                    MmOO833882_ml                                          5'FAM               iX
                                                                               3'NFQ -MGB
GAPDH                   Mm99999915_gl                                          5'FAM               iX
                                                                               3'NFQ -MGB
18s                     Hs99999901_s1                                          5'FAM               1X
                                                                               3'NFQ -MGB
EpoR indicates erythropoietin receptor; FAM, 6-carboxyfluorescein ester; LV, lentiviral vector; NFQ,
nonfluorescent quencher; MGB, minor groove binder; SRY,sex-determining region Y and TAMRA,
tetramethyl-6-carboxyrhodamine. *Applied Biosystems.
                           Total RNA was extracted with the Purelink micro to midi total RNA
purification system (Invitrogen) and cDNA was synthesized with the Superscript III first
strand synthesis super mix (Invitrogen). The mouse (m) EpoR, mGAPDH, and 18s cDNAs
were quantified with the use of TaqMan gene expression assays (Table 1). The
comparative Ct method (ACT) was used to compare mEpoR pr oduction levels between
cell types. Control samples from which the reverse transcriptase or the sample had been
omitted were included.
Amplification factor of modified ervthroid cells
                           The effect of tEpoR and 3-globin on erythroid cell expansion was calculated
on the basis of the comparison between modified WBC and RBC percentages in peripheral
blood. The percentage of modified RBCs (%RBC) was determined by flow cytometry with
an anti-human HbA antibody. The percentage of modified WBCs (%WBC) was
determined from the vector copy numbers per leukocyte (V) and the fraction of donor male
cells (D). It was calculated as follows:
                           " the vector copy number per donor leukocyte Vd = V/D;
                           e    the percentage of modified WBCs among donor cells %WBC+d was
                           determined from Vd according to the Poisson law: % WBC+d
                            [1 - exp( - Vd)] X 100; and

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 89
                           e    the percentage of modified WBCs among all leukocytes
                           %WBC = %WBC+d x D.
                           Assuming that modified WBCs have no advantage or disadvantage over
unmodified WBCs in vivo, the amplification factor of modified erythroid cells (FE)
resulting from the survival benefit provided to modified erythrocytes and the production
advantage conferred to modified erythroid cells in the bone marrow was calculated as
follows:
                           FE = (%RBC+/%RBC-)/(%WBC+/%WBC-) (eq 1)
                           As a consequence, (%RBC+/%RBC-) = FE (%WBC+/%WBC-) (eq 2), and
the hyperbolic relationship between %RBC* and %WBC+ is described by the following:
                           %RBC = {FE[(100/(FE - 1)] x %WBC+}/{[100/(FE - 1)] +%WBC'} (eq 3)
                           This mathematical model was derived from Roberts et al., Ann NYAcad Sci.
2005; 1054: 423-428, assumes a steady-state balance between destruction and production
of WBCs and RBCs.
                           To assess that modified leukocyte were not affected by tEpoR, the fractions
of in vivo-modified WBC and ex vivo-modified HCs were calculated, divided, and
compared between mice undergoing transplantation with LG- and LG/HA-Y1-transduced
cells.
Integrationsite analysis
                           Genomic DNA from vector-infected cells was purified and linkers added for
PCR by treatment with phage MuA transposase and synthetic oligonucleotides containing
MuA recognition sites. Genomic DNA adjacent to integrated vectors was then amplified
by the use of PCR primers complementary to the vector DNA end and the linker.
Sequences of PCR products were determined by 454/Roche pyrosequencing, and data were
curated and analyzed. The Mu transposition method provides an estimate of abundance, in
which the number of independent Mu integration events in vitro that result in isolation of a
single Mu site reports the relative abundance. In a few cases, integration sites were found

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                              - 90
in more than one mouse. These cases could either be because of the growth of transduced
cells before transplantation or because of crossover during PCR. In these cases, integration
sites were assigned to a single mouse on the basis of relative abundance. Proximity of
integration sites to proto-oncogenes was determined by comparison with the allOnco
database (Cancer gene data sets. Available at microb230.med.upenn.edu/protocols/cancer
genes.html. Accessed April 5, 2011).
Statisticalanalysis
                           For 2 group comparisons, Student t test or Mann-Whitney rank-sum test
were used. For comparison of more than 2 groups, one-way analysis of variance and the
Holm-Sidak or the Kruskal-Wallis on ranks methods were used. Linear regression was
applied to data with determination of the correlation coefficient (R2) and the P value. All
tests were performed with the SigmaPlot Version 10.0 software. P < .05 was considered
significant.
                                                           EXAMPLE 2
    TEPOR-EXPRESSING HCs POSSESS A PROLIFERATIVE ADVANTAGE IN                    phalassemic    MICE
Background
                           A 3-thalassemia mouse model that has constitutively elevated levels of
plasma Epo (20- to 50-fold normal mouse values) was used to examine the expansion of
bone marrow cells, transduced with a vector that ubiquitously expresses tEpoR, that were
transplanted into syngeneic recipients.
                           Gammaretroviral vectors (KVs) expressing the EpoR c DNAs and eGFP
ubiquitously were constructed. These KVs encode the full -length murine EpoR
(mEpoRYl-8), either of the 2 truncated receptors (mEpoRYl-2 or mEpoRYl) or eGFP
only (Figure 1A-IC). All constructs were shown to express efficient Epo receptors in
Ba/F3 cells. mEpoRYl-8 was also shown to be functional in UT7-GM cells.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                  - 91
                           BM cells from           phalassemic    donors were transduced w ith the 4 KVs
described above. Four million cells, including 10% genetically modified cells, were
injected into lethally irradiated                     phalassemic rec    ipients.
Results
                           Twenty weeks after transplantation, 5.5% and 3.l1% eGFP-positive RBCs
and WBCs, respectively, were detected in the blood of mice transplanted with cells
modified by the control 4 V (Figure 2A).
                           Mice receiving KV/EpoRYl -8-transduced cells showed no significant
amplification of their eGFP-positive RBC (2.7%) and WBC (4.l1%) populations over those
of control mice. Separate analysis of lymphoid and myeloid compartments also did not
show specific hematopoietic cell type amplification (Figure 9 and Table 2).
Table 2
                       Vector                     Mean      SD         SE         Median 25th    75th    p-value
                      yRV                         3.066     2.973      1.330      1.370  0.728   5.972
                                                  30.836    11.958     5.348      25.430 22.712  43.335  0.001
      WBC             yRV/EpoRY1
                      yRV/EpoRY1-2                17.683    6.704      2.737      15.900 13.510  19.340  0.002
                      yRV/EpoRY1-8                4.138     4.929      2.012      3.125  0.870   3.860   0.931
                      yRV                         2.602     2.648      1.184      1.020  0.867   4.500
                                                  30.888    11.813     5.348      29.670 21.153  42.650  0.008
 LYMPHO               yRV/EpoRY1
                      yRV/EpoRY1-2                15.705    5.502      2.246      14.685 11.630  18.820  <0.001
                      yRV/EpoRY1-8                4.830     6.877      2.807      2.465  0.940   4.460   0.792
                      yRV                         5.428     5.832      2.608      1.770  1.198   11.355
                                                  57.668    39.524     17.676     77.440 22.790  86.645  0.019
       GM             yRV/EpoRY1
                      yRV/EpoRY1-2                48.970    28.053     11.452     45.270 25.580  71.130  0.004
                      yRV/EpoRY1-8                4.503     4.672      1.907      3.290  .0580   7.330   0.776
                      yRV                         5.502     9.291      4.155      0.820  0.253   8.855
                                                  39.180    24.736     11.062     38.350 22.802  55.150  0.021
      RBC             yRV/EpoRY1
                      yRV/EpoRY1-2                42.972    7.625      3.113      43.960 36.850  47.690  <0.001
                      yRV/EpoRY1-8                2.672     5.909      2.412      0.020  0.020   1.270   0.247
Mean, standard deviation (SD), standard error (SE), median value, 25th percentile, 75th percentile and
significance of differences (p value) between the mean or median percentages of eGFP positive cells in the
control group (RV) versus the other groups of mice in white blood cells (WBC), lymphoid cells (LYMPHO),
myeloid cells (GM) and red blood cells (RBC).
                           Mice receiving KV/ EpoRYl-transduced cells had 39.2% and 30.8%
amplification of eGFP-positive RBCs and WBCs, respectively. This represented a 7-fold

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                - 92
(P    =    .02 1) and 10-fold (P            =  .00 1) increase of modified RBC and WBC proportions
compared with the control group, respectively. In mice receiving KV/EpoRY1 -2, the
mean amplification levels of modified RBC and WBC proportions were 8- and 6-fold,
respectively.
                           Thus, the mean percentages of eGFP-positive cells in KV/EpoRYl and
KV/EpoRYl -2 mice were significantly different from the mean value observed in the
KV/EpoRYl -8-transduced group.
                           Myeloid cells were examined to determine whether the proportion of eGFP
positive cells that was greater in RBCs than in WBCs was because of persistence of
recipient radioresistant memory lymphoid cells. The median values of the percentages of
eGFP-positive cells showed a trend toward greater values in granulo/monocytes than in
lymphocytes in KV/EpoRY1 -2 mice (P = .009) and in KV/EpoRYl animals. The
percentages of eGFP-positive cells were not statistically different between the erythroid
and the myeloid compartment (Table 3), indicating that tEpoR did not exert a preferential
effect in erythroid over myeloid cells.
Table 3
Vector                        WBC              LYMPHO GM
]?-V                          0.592            0.521         0.548
]kV/EpoRY1                    0.516            0.518         0.401
]kV/EpoRY1 -2 < 0.001 < 0.001                                0.937
fkV/EpoRY1 -8 0.132                            0.132         0.132
Statistical significance of differences (pvalues) between the mean or median percentages of GFP positive
cells in RBC versus white blood cells (WBC), lymphoid cells (LYMPHO) and myeloid cells (GM).
                           To determine whether EpoR was expressed at a lower level than truncated
receptors, we compared the eGFP mean fluorescence intensities (MFI) in transduced HCs
grown in vitro and after transplantation. The MFI of the transduced cells before
transplantation were equivalent with all vectors (Figure 10). EpoRYl and EpoRYl-8
mRNAs, quantified by qRT-PCR in CD45* cells sorted for eGFP expression 10 days after
transduction, were similar. However in mice, there were statistically significant differences

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                 - 93
of MFI between KV/EpoRYl and IKV (P                            = .031) and KV/EpoRYl and    KV/EpoRYl -8
(P .017) in the myeloid compartment. The 4 mice with the greatest MFI in granulocytes
had the greatest percentage of modified myeloid cells. No difference was observed
between IKV and IKV/Ep                        oRYl-8 mice in any cell types.
                           Together, these results indicated that the absence of selection with the wild
type EpoR was not because of a lower level of expression of EpoR but that myeloid cells
expressing the greatest level of EpoR-Yl were favored over cells expressing lower levels
of truncated EpoR. The blood counts (Table 4) were not statistically different between
groups. However, plasma Epo levels were 2.5-fold lower (P = .005) in the VV/EpoRY1
and KV/EpoRY1 -2 transplanted mice than in the 2 other groups (Figure 2B).
Table 4
                        Vector -          Mean         SD  SE       Range  Max   Min   Median  25th 75th
                        RV/
Hc (%)                                    29.9         1.6 0.7      4.3    32.4  28.1  29.6    29.2 30.5
                        EpoRYl            30.3         1.9 0.8      4.8    32.6  27.6  31.0    28.7 31.4
                        EpoRY1-2          31.7         2.8 1.2      7.6    34.7  27.1  31.9    30.4 34.1
                        EpoRY1-8          29.0         1.4 0.6      3.1    30.2  27.1  29.7    27.3 30.1
RBC                                       8.3          0.2 0.1      0.5    8.5   8.0   8.3     8.2  8.4
(x10 1 2 /L)            EpoRYl            8.5          1.0 0.4      2.4    9.5   7.2   8.6     7.9  9.4
                        EpoRY1-2          8.5          0.8 0.3      2.3    9.5   7.2   8.5     8.1  9.2
                        EpoRY1-8          8.0          0.4 0.1      0.9    8.6   7.7   7.9     7.7  8.3
Hb (g/dL)                                 9.7          0.7 0.3      2.0    10.8  8.8   9.8     9.3  10.1
                        EpoRYl            9.8          0.6 0.3      1.7    10.4  8.8   9.9     9.5  10.3
                        EpoRY1-2           10.0        0.8 0.3      2.2    10.8  8.7   10.0    9.6  10.8
                        EpoRY1-8          9.7          0.4 0.2      1.0    10.3  9.3   9.7     9.3  9.9
WBC                                       9.7          3.0 1.4      8.0    13.8  5.8   9.1     7.9  12.0
(x10 9/L)               EpoRYl            8.1          1.6 0.7      4.4    10.4  6.0   8.4     7.0  9.1
                        EpoRY1-2          9.8          1.3 0.5      3.7    118.  8.1   9.7     9.0  10.8
                        EpoRY1-8          8.0          202 0.9      5.0    10.8  5.8   7.7     5.9  10.1
neutrophils                               0.4          0.1 0.0      0.2    0.5   0.4   0.4     0.4  0.5
(x10 9/L)               EpoRYl            0.5          0.2 0.1      0.3    0.6   0.3   0.5     0.3  0.6
                        EpoRY1-2          0.5          0.1 0.1      0.4    0.6   0.2   0.5     0.5  0.6
                        EpoRY1-8          0.3          0.2 0.1      0.6    0.7   0.1   0.3     0.2  0.4
monocytes                                 0.4          0.1 0.0      0.2    0.5   0.4   0.4     0.4  0.5
(x10 9/L)               EpoRYl            0.5          0.2 0.1      0.3    0.6   0.3   0.5     0.3  0.6
                        EpoRY1-2          0.5          0.1 0.1      0.4    0.6   0.2   0.5     0.5  0.6
                        EpoRY1-8          0.3          0.2 0.1      0.6    0.7   0.1   0.3     0.2  0.4
lymphocytes                               8.2          3.1 1.4      8.5    12.6  4.2   7.7     6.4  10.2
(x10 9/L)               EpoRYl            6.6          1.3 0.6      3.6    8.4   4.9   6.6     5.8  7.3

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                  -94
                        EpoRY1-2          8.2          1.3   0.5     4.1     10.4   6.3   8.0   7.7   8.5
                        EpoRY1-8          6.8          2.1   0.9     5.0     9.5    4.5   6.5   4.6   8.9
eosinophils                               0.0          0.0   0.0     0.1     0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
(x10 9/L)               EpoRYl            0.0          0.0   0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                        EpoRY1-2          0.0          0.0   0.0     0.1     0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                        EpoRY1-8          0.0          0.0   0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
basophils                                 0.3          0.1   0.0     0.2     0.4    0.2   0.3   0.2   0.4
(x10 9/L)               EpoRYl            0.4          0.2   0.1     0.5     0.6    0.1   0.4   0.2   0.5
                        EpoRY1-2          0.4          0.1   0.0     0.3     0.6    0.3   0.4   0.3   0.5
                        EpoRY1-8          0.2          0.1   0.0     0.3     0.3    0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2
MCV (fL)                                  36.2         1.3   0.6     3.2     38.3   35.1  36.0  35.4  36.6
                        EpoRYl            35.7         3.5   1.6     7.9     40.6   32.6  34.3  32.9  38.7
                        EpoRY1-2          37.5         2.0   0.8     5.8     40.8   35.0  37.5  36.1  37.9
                        EpoRY1-8          36.4         1.2   0.54    3.1     38.3   35.2  36.0  35.4  37.1
MCH (pg)                                   11.8        0.7   0.3      1.8    12.7   10.9  11.9  11.2  12.1
                        EpoRYl             11.6        0.9   0.4      1.9    12.2   10.3  12.2  10.8  12.2
                        EpoRY1-2           11.8        0.4   0.2      1.2    12.5   11.3  11.7  11.4  12.1
                        EpoRY1-8           12.1        0.2   0.1     0.4     12.4   11.9  12.1  12.0  12.3
MCHC                                      32.5         0.9   0.4     2.0     33.2   31.1  33.1  31.7  33.1
(g/dL)                  EpoRYl            32.4         2.0   0.9     5.3     35.4   30.2  31.9  31.3  33.7
                        EpoRY1-2          31.5         2.0   0.8     5.4     33.1   27.7  32.1  31.5  32.6
                        EpoRY1-8          33.4         0.3   0.3     2.1     34.3   32.2  33.5  32.8  34.1
Platelets                                 954.7        395.9 177.1    1001.5 1485.0 483.5 845.0 679.6 1282.5
(x10 9/L)               EpoRYl            717.5        190.3 85.1    517.5   955.0  437.5 705.0 619.4 846.3
                        EpoRY1-2          761.2        273.6 111.7 753.0     1200.0 447.0 730.0 550.0 910.0
                        EpoRY1-8          914.0 340.7 139.1 866.0            1250.0 384.0 962.5 675.0 1250.0
Epo                                       74.0         26.0  11.6    70.5    113.8  43.3  68.9  58.5  88.8
(mU/mL)                 EpoRYl            30.2         19.3  8.6     45.5    57.8   12.3  20.4  16.5  46.5
                        EpoRY1-2          29.6         7.2   2.9      19.0   41.0   22.0  27.8  23.8  35.1
                        EpoRY1-8          86.3         59.2  24.2     169.3  197.7  28.4  66.5  58.6  100.5
Mean, standard deviation (SD), standard error (SE), range, maximal, minimal and median values, 25th
percentile, 75th percentile of the hematocrit values (Hc), red blood cell counts (RBC), hemoglobin
concentrations (Hb), white blood cell counts (WBC) and specific cell subsets, mean corpuscular volumes
(MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin contents (MCH), mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentrations
(MCHC), platelet counts and plasma erythropoietin levels (Epo) in four groups of mice transplanted twenty
weeks earlier.
                                                             EXAMPLE 3
                                          A CHIMERIC HS40/ANKYRIN PROMOTER IS
                    ERYTHROID SPECIFIC WITHIN THE -GLOBIN/LCR LENTIVIRAL VECTOR
Background

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                - 95
                           A lentiviral vector was designed to express tEpoR in a erythroid-cell
specific manner to restrict cell expansion to the RBC compartment. The possible effects of
transcriptional interference within the compact lentiviral provirus containing both the
human          P-globin gene driven              the erythroid specific p-globin promoter/LCR  enhancer and
the tEpoR cDNA expression cassettes were assessed. To express tEpoR, the human                          p
globin HS40 enhancer was linked to the Ankyrin- 1 promoter (Moreau-Gaudry et al.,
Blood, 2001;98(9):2664-2672) referred to as HA.
                           To assess the level of erythroid specificity, eGFP was first introduced in the
globin/LCR lentiviral vector LG (Figure 1B), yielding the LG/HA-eGFP vector. The
lentiviral vector HPV570 was used as a control vector that expresses eGFP ubiquitously.
BM cells from normal C57BL/6J-CD45.2 mice were transduced with these vectors and
injected in congenic C57BL/6JCD45.1 mice.
Results
                           The HA promoter in the context of the LG vector shows a high degree of
erythroid specificity without interference from the                     p-globin/LCR cassette. Analysis of cells
grown in vitro revealed 0.14 and 1.50 provirus copies per cell for LG/HA-eGFP and
HPV570, respectively. Donor chimerism in circulating WBCs, 5 months after
transplantation, were similar (approximately 90% CD45.2-positive WBCs). At the same
time point, the percentages of eGFP-positive peripheral subsets of WBCs (myeloid, T
lymphoid, and B-lymphoid) and eGFP-positive RBCs were determined by flow cytometry.
At 6 months after transplantation, cells from BM and thymus were analyzed by flow
cytometry with the same antibodies as well as with antibodies for the erythroid lineage.
The percentages of eGFP-positive myeloid, lymphoid, and erythroid cells were equivalent
in mice that underwent transplantation with HPV570-modified cells, whereas the
percentages of eGFP-positive erythroblasts and RBCs were much greater than the
percentages of myeloid and lymphoid eGFP cells in mice that underwent transplantation
with LG/HA-eGFP-modified cells (Figure 3).

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                     - 96
                           Erythroid specific expression was maintained when eGFP was replaced by
tEpoR. tEpoR expression in modified erythroid and nonerythroid cells was compared. BM
cells from a non-phalassemic mouse were purified on the basis of the presence or absence
of the pan-leukocyte CD45 antigen and then transduced with the LG/HA-EpoRYl vector.
Two days later, RNA was extracted and analyzed by RT-qPCR. Expression of tEpoRYl in
transduced erythroid CD45- (> 99% Ter 19w) cells was more than 100-fold greater than in
transduced CD45* (< 1% Terl 19w) cells (147- and 109-fold when normalized to GAPDH
and ribosomal 18s RNAs, respectively). Endogenous EpoR mRNA was undetectable by
this method in nontransduced CD45* or CD45- cells, indicating that the 100-fold increase
of EpoR mRNA observed in erythroid versus nonerythroid cells was from transgenic EpoR
and resulted from the specificity of the Ankyrin promoter.
                                                                EXAMPLE 4
  ERYTHROID SPECIFIC TEPOR AND                             p-GLOBIN    COEXPRESSION AND SELECTIVE EXPANSION OF
                               ERYTHROID CELLS IN TRANSPLANTED                  phalassemic     MICE
Background
                           In view of the substantially similar effects of the KV/EpoRYl and
KV/EpoRY1 -2 vectors (Figure 1), EpoRYl were for subsequent mouse transplant
experiments with the LG vectors.
                           The percentages of RBCs and WBCs in                  phalassemic m    ice transplanted
with syngeneic              phalassemic marrow                cells transduce d with either the LG or the LG/HA
Yl vector were compared. Blood cell counts, percentage of RBC-expressing human Hb,
level of human              p-globin      expression, degree of donor chimerism, and vector copy numbers
were determined 40 or 35 weeks after transplantation.
Results
                           The relationship between the percentages of RBCs versus WBCs is shown
(Figure 4A-B). Values were compared with 4 theoretical curves (derived from equations 2

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                 - 97
and 3 described in the section "Amplification factor of modified erythroid cells" in
Example 1), where the theoretical expansion of modified RBCs (FE) would be 1-, 10-, 50-,
or 200-fold greater than the expansion of modified WBCs. For most of the LG/HA
EpoRYl mice, RBCs* were expanded 50- and 200-fold over WBCs*, whereas RBCs* of
LG mice only expanded only between 1- and 10-fold over WBCs+. The median erythroid
amplification factor FE for LG/HA-EpoRYl and LG mice were 97.2 (range, 8.2-729.7) and
5.0 (range, 0.5-14.4), respectively (Figure 4C).
                           The apparent advantage for tEpoR modified erythroid cells was determined
to be specific to erythroid cells and not a disadvantage conferred to modified WBCs.
Further, it was determined that tEpoR modified WBCs had no advantage over unmodified
WBCs cells. The fraction of WBCs* among donor WBCs was determined and compared
with the fraction of transduced bulk HCs before transplantation (10 days after transduction,
without addition of recombinant human Epo; Figure 4D). The median ratio of the fractions
were equivalent (P = .21) and close to 1, indicating that there was neither disadvantage nor
benefit to modified WBCs over unmodified donor WBCs cells in vivo. Copy numbers
were also measured in HCs grown with Epo and were similar to those determined in cells
grown without Epo, indicating that Epo did not confer a proliferation advantage to
transduced cells in vitro.
                                                             EXAMPLE 5
        CORRECTION OF THE                 phalassemic        PHENOTYPE CORRELATES TO THE PROPORTION OF
                  CIRCULATING            RBCS THAT         EXPRESS THE THERAPEUTIC HUMAN    p-GLOBIN
Background
                           The LG/HA-EpoRYl vector corrects the             p-thalassemia disease phenotype.
The       p-thalassemia         disease phenotype was assessed for a given proportion of circulating
RBCs in both LG and LG/HA-EpoRYl mice (i.e., mice administered LG or LG/HA
EpoRYl transduced marrow cells). Hematologic parameters, Hb concentrations, as well as

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                              - 98
RBC and reticulocyte counts of LG and LG/HA-EpoRYl mice as a function of RBC were
recorded. It was previously shown that correction of the                   p-thalassemia  phenotype was
evident with the LG vector provided that the percentage of RBC+ was > 40%.
Results
                           Linear regressions were applied to the data obtained from LG mice with a
threshold in excess of 40% RBCs*, in all but 3 mice. Significant correlations (Figure 5)
between the level of RBC+ and normalization of (1) concentration of total Hb, (2)
concentration of human                    p-globinAT87 Q, (3) RBC counts, (4) reticulocyte counts, and (5)
spleen weight were found within the group of mice receiving LG transduced marrow cells
(Figure 6A).
                           Linear regressions were applied to the data obtained from LG/HA-EpoRYl
mice with a threshold in excess of 40% RBCs+.
                           Most of the hematologic values measured in LG/HA-EpoRYl mice
undergoing transplantation fell within the 95% confidence band for the fitted regression
lines corresponding to all the measured parameters.
                           The percentages of erythroid cells were then measured within the spleens of
5 LG, 5 LG/HA-EpoRYl, and 3 mock-transplanted mice.
                           The decrease in spleen size was associated with a decrease in the percentage
of spleen erythroid cells in both groups of mice, consistent with decreased
dyserythropoiesis and improved efficiency of terminal erythroid cell differentiation (Figure
5B). Together, these data indicated that the correction of the                  phalassemic phenotype
correlated to the proportion of circulating RBCs that expressed the therapeutic human                      p
globin in similar proportion for both LG and LG/HA-EpoRYl groups of mice, with an
accessory benefit provided by tEpoR expression.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                    - 99
                                                             EXAMPLE 6
  RBC EXPANSION                 IS LINEAGE-RESTRICTED AND THERAPEUTIC AFTER MINIMAL LENTIVIRAL
                                      TRANSFER AND SECONDARY TRANSPLANTATION
Background
                           The coexpression of the therapeutic                p-globin AT87Q and tEpoR   induces RBC
expansion in the context of elevated Epo plasma concentrations in 3-thalassemia and
results in an increased degree of phenotypic correction with a lower proportion of WBCs*
in LG/HA-EpoRYl versus LG mice. At < 20% WBCs+, virtually all LG/HA-EpoRYl
mice had a corrected phenotype (Figure 6A). With 8.3% LG/HA-EpoRY1 WBCs+, 81.6%
of the RBCs originated from modified erythroid progenitors, whereas 10.4% LG WBCs*
produced no more than 27% RBCs* (Figure 6B).
                           Consequently, with a mean WBC+ proportion of 8.3%, the mean hematocrit
value (40.10%) and hemoglobin concentration (12.7 g/dL) of LG/HA-EpoRYl mice were
much greater than in LG mice having an equivalent percentage (10.4%) of WBC+ (Figure
6B). Similar correction was obtained in LG mice (mean hematocrit value, 40.2%;
hemoglobin concentration, 12.5 g/dL) but required a greater proportion of WBCs* (42.6%).
The 4 mice of the LG/HA-EpoRYl group with the lowest proportion of WBC+ (3.3%
 1.4 %) had a mean human                     p-globinAT8 7Qlevel       of 33.1% ± 5. 6 % distributed in78.4% ±
2 0.1     % RBCs, whereas among the 4 LG mice with the lowest proportion of modified WBCs
(0.9%, 6.8%, 11.2%, and 13.3%), only the two mice having the highest proportion of
WBCs* expressed detectable human                           p-globinAT8 7Q (2 3 .8%    and 12 .2 %), and the percentages
of modified RBCs were 1.0%, 6 .0%,                         4 2 . 3 %, and  2 1.3 %, respectively.
                           Secondary BM transplants were performed with HCs of primary
transplanted mice 40 weeks after primary transplantation to assess whether repopulating
HSC were depleted and to further decrease the proportion of modified HCs in a long-term
study. Eleven lethally irradiated female mice received 5 million bone marrow cells from 3

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                - 100
primary mice undergoing mock transplantation, 4 LG primary recipients, and 4 LG/HA
EpoRYl primary female mice. HCs of LG and LG/HA-EpoRYl mice were diluted with
cells from one of the mice transplanted with mock transduced cells to decrease the
proportion of WBC+ in the secondary animals that underwent transplantation (Table 5).
Results
                            The data showing increased amplification of erythroid cells modified with
the LG/HA-EpoRYl compared to the LG vector after secondary transplants is summarized
in Table 5. Data are given for each secondary transplanted mouse with LG (group 2) and
LG/HA-EpoRYl (group 3)-modified cells 10 weeks after secondary transplantation. At 10
weeks after transplantation, the amplification factor FE ranged from 0 to 12 and 48 to 2374
for LG and LG/HA-Yl mice, respectively. In LG and LG/HA-EpoRYl groups indeed, the
mean theoretical percentage of WBC was similar to the mean measured percentages of
WBC.
Table 5
Group                    Primary              Dilution     WBC (theo) WBC        RBC              FE
2                        30.8                 5            6.2        2.1        9.5              5
2                        24.7                 7            3.5        1.0        7.7              8
2                        31.6                 10           3.2        8.8        54.0             12
2                        9.4                  4            2.4        3.5        0.0              0
Mean                                                       3.8        3.9
SD                                                         1.7        3.5
3                         1.8                 1            1.7        0.1        70.4             2374
3                        3.1                  1            3.1        1.2        55.2             102
3                        25.2                 4            5.7        9.8        88.2             69
3                        24.8                 2            11.7       16.0       90.1             48
Mean                                                       5.6        6.8
SD                                                         4.4        7.5        _    _   _ _
Dilution indicates dilution factor with cells from a mouse transplanted with mock-transduced cells; F",
amplification factor of modified erythroid cells vs. modified leukocytes; primary, the percentage of modified
nucleated cells in BM of primary donors; RBC, percentage of RBCs containing human hemoglobin;
WBC(theo), theoretical percentage of modified WBCs assuming 100% reconstitution with donor cells; WBC,
percentage of modified WBCs in secondary transplants assuming 100% reconstitution with donor cells and
deduced from copy numbers.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                                       - 101
                           The vector copy numbers in WBCs were not statistically different between
LG and LG/HA-Yl mice (Table 6). However, the mean percentage of RBCs expressing
human          p-globinAT87 Q and the             blood concentration of p-globinAT8 7 Q were greater in the
presence of the LG/HA-EpoRYl vector (26.10% human                                       p-globinAT8 7 Q distributed      in 75.9%
of erythrocytes) than with the LG vector (5.9% human                                   p-globinAT8 7 Q distributed in 17.8%
erythrocytes). Calculations indicated that the difference was because of the expansion of
the RBC+ population in the case of the LG/HA-EpoRYl vector, because the
intracorpuscular RBC content in hybrid hemoglobin (made of human                                          p-globinAT87Qand
mouse         B-globin) was similar for both LG/HA-EpoRYl                               and the LG mouse groups (4.8 and
4.6 pg, respectively). Surprisingly, highly efficient correction of the anemia and other
parameters was observed in                      phalassemic          mice trans planted with LG/HA-EpoRYl but not
LG vectors (Table 6). Furthermore, it was equally unexpected that the secondary
transplant experiments resulted in cell expansion that remained restricted to the erythroid
lineage, even after extensive HC division.
Table 6
                  Copy/                 RBC                  hp-globin            Hb               Hc              RTC
                 WBC
Grp         Mean        SD        Mean         SD         Mean       SD     Mean      SD     Mean      SD     Mean      SD
   1        0.00        0.00      0.00         0.00       0.0        0.0    11.1      0.2    34.4      1.1    22.0      2.8
   2        0.04        0.04       17.8        24.5        5.9       7.2    11.4      .09    35.4      2.2    17.8      4.6
   3        0.07        0.08      75.9         16.4       26.1       5.6    14.1      1.5    44.0      5.2    6.9       5.1
  P               2.79                   .001                  <.001             .011             .011             .004
 SI-2                                      N                     N                N                 N                N
 SI-3                                      Y                     Y                Y                 Y                Y
 S 2-3                                     Y                     Y                Y                 Y                Y
                  RBC                   MCV                    MCH             MChuH             sol Hb           WBC
Grp         Mean        SD        Mean         SD         Mean       SD     Mean      SD     Mean      SD     Mean      SD
   1        9.3         0.2       37.0         1.8         11.9      0.4    0.0       0.0    9.2       0.4    7.4       1.1
   2        9.4         0.2       37.6         1.8         12.1      0.8    4.6       0.9    9.9       1.1    8.6       2.7
   3        10.1         1.0      43.4         1.5         139.      0.4    4.8       0.5    13.2      1.9    8.4       1.0
  P                .207                  .001                   .003             .009             .008             .694
 SI-2                                      N                     N                Y                 Y       |
 SI- 3                                     Y                     Y                Y                 Y
 S2-3                                      Y                     Y                N                 N

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                             - 102
Mean hematological parameters and SDs in groups of secondary transplanted recipients with mock (1)-, LG
(2)-, and LG/HA-Y1 (3)-modified cells 10 weeks after secondary transplantation. Copy indicates peripheral
blood copy number per cell; RBC, RBC containing human hemoglobin (%); hu -glo, human P-globin (%);
Hb, hemoglobin (g/dL); Hc, hematocrit value (%); RTC, reticulocytes (%); RBC, red blood cells ( 1012/L);
MCV, mean corpuscular volume (fL); MCH, mean corpuscular hemoglobin (pg); MChuH, mean corpuscular
human hemoglobin in modified RBC (pg); sol Hb, soluble hemoglobin (g/dL); WBC, white blood cells
 109/L). Multiple and pairwise comparisons are made by the use of one-way analysis of variance and the
Holm-Sidak method, respectively. When an overall significance level < .05 (P value) is obtained, statistical
significance is given as yes (Y) or no (N) between groups 1 and 2 (S 1-2), 1 and 3 (S 1-3), and 2 and 3 (S2-3).
                                                           EXAMPLE 7
                                  ERYTHROID CELL EXPANSION IS SELF-CONTROLLED
Background
                           The various hematopoietic lineages were analyzed by flow cytometry with
lineage specific antibodies in the peripheral blood and BM of phalassemic mice that
underwent transplantation with cells transduced with LG and LG/HA-EpoRYl vectors.
Results
                           The mean percentages of T-lymphoid, B-lymphoid, and myeloid cells
among CD45.2-positive cells were not statistically different between LG and LG/HA
EpoRY 1 mice that underwent transplantation (Figure 7A). The plasma Epo concentration
and the number of RBC+ were inversely correlated, independently of the presence or
absence of tEpoR (Figure 7B), indicating that the presence of tEpoR did not impair the
control of modified erythroid cell production by plasma Epo.
                           No correlation was observed between the percentage of RBC+ and WBC or
platelets (not shown) counts, nor was a significant difference observed in WBC (P = .125)
and platelet (P = .254) counts between the two groups of mice (Figure 7C). Histologic
sections of spleen, liver, lung, kidney, heart, BM, and thymus of mice were analyzed 10
months after transplantation. No neoplastic cell infiltration was observed.
                           To investigate possible effects of vector integration on cell proliferation,
insertion site analysis was performed on cells from four phalassemic mice that underwent
transplantation five months earlier with cells transduced by the LG/HA-EpoRYl vector.

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 103
Mice underwent transplantation with a relatively low number of HSCs after conditioning
with low-dose irradiation (200 rads) to maximize the pressure for cell proliferation and
thereby maximize the chances of detecting effects of insertional activation of genes
promoting cell proliferation or survival. At 5 months after transplantation, the
lymphomyeloid (CD45*) and erythroid (CD45^) cells of each mouse were sorted, genomic
DNA was extracted, and integration site sequences were determined.
                           Integration sites were analyzed with the use of Mu-mediated transposition in
vitro. Because the purified Mu transposase protein has minimal target sequence specificity,
recovery of integration sites is much less biased than with standard methods involving
genomic DNA cleavage with restriction enzymes. An added advantage is that the number
of independent Mu transposition events associated with each integration site provides an
estimate of the proportion of that cell clone in the original sample.
                           A total of 2510 sequence reads were generated with 454/Roche
pyrosequencing. Sites were recovered from a total of 1070 independent Mu transposition
events, including 47 unique integration sites, paralleling the low number of cells inoculated
initially. Comparison of the integration site distributions in the lymphoidmyeloid and
erythroid cell samples showed various degrees of commonality between lineages among
the mice (Figure 11), possibly as a result of stochastic effects of sampling low numbers.
                           Analysis of the insertional events indicated that use of the LG/Ha-EpoRYl
vector is a safe therapeutic modality and that growth of the modified erythroid cells was
not due to integration near genes involved in cell growth or proliferation promoted
outgrowth of particular cell clones. No interactions between EpoR signaling and
insertional activation of proto-oncogenes, resulting in clonal expansion were observed.
There were no examples of an enrichment of integration sites near a single gene associated
with cell growth. In addition, the distribution of the most abundant cell clones (marked by
integration sites) relative to a list of cancer-related genes (the allOnco database) was

H:\ar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_l.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                           - 104
analyzed and no association between clonal abundance and proximity to cancer-related
genes was found (Figure 8A-B).
                           The proportion of integration sites within 50 kb of an oncogene in LG/HA
EpoRY1 cells was compared to the proportion of insertion site (IS) identified in murine
HCs modified by the LG vector, before and 9 months after transplantation in                 phalassemic
mice, and described in a previous study (Ronen et al, Mol Ther, published online March 8,
2011). No statistically significant differences between sets were found by the Fisher exact
test for proximity to cancer-related genes (Figure 8C).
                           Further. No biases in integration relative to other types of genomic features
could be detected when sites from the LG/HA-EpoRYl-treated cells were compared with
sites from the LG transduced cells. No form of genomic annotation showed strong
differences in insertion site between the 2 vectors.
                           Thus, these data do not support the idea that integration near genes involved
in cell growth or proliferation promoted outgrowth of particular cell clones.
                           The various embodiments described above can be combined to provide
further embodiments. All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent application publications, U.S.
patent applications, foreign patents, foreign patent applications and non-patent publications
referred to in this specification and/or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated
herein by reference, in their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be modified, if
necessary to employ concepts of the various patents, applications and publications to
provide yet further embodiments.
                           These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in light of the
above-detailed description. In general, in the following claims, the terms used should not
be construed to limit the claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification
and the claims, but should be construed to include all possible embodiments along with the
full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly, the claims are not
limited by the disclosure.

H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR,16695614_I.DOC-3/23/2018
                                                            - 105
               Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply
the inclusion of a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers
or method steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method step or group of
elements or integers or method steps.
               The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16696370_l.docx-23 03/2018
                                                                - 106
CLAIMS:
 1.               A vector comprising:
                  a)             a left (5') retroviral LTR;
                  b)             a first erythroid cell specific expression control sequence operably linked to
a polynucleotide encoding a globin polypeptide;
                  c)             a second erythroid cell specific expression control sequence operably linked
to a polynucleotide encoding a truncated erythropoietin receptor (tEpoR); and
                  d)             a right (3') retroviral LTR.
2.                The vector of Claim 1, wherein the first erythroid cell specific expression control
sequence is selected from the group consisting of: a human p-globin promoter; a human p
globin LCR; and a human a-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1 promoter.
3.                The vector of Claim 1, wherein the second erythroid cell specific expression
control sequence is selected from the group consisting of: a human p-globin promoter; a
human p-globin LCR; and a human a-globin HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin- 1 promoter.
4.                The vector of Claim 1, wherein the first erythroid cell specific expression control
sequence comprises a human p-globin promoter and a human p-globin LCR; and the
second erythroid cell specific expression control sequence comprises a human a-globin
HS40 enhancer and an ankyrin-1 promoter.
5.                The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the globin is selected from the
group consisting of: human p-globin, human 6-globin, and human y-globin.
6.                The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the polynucleotide encoding the
globin polypeptide comprises a wild type human p-globin gene sequence, a deleted human
p-globin gene sequence comprising one or more deletions of intron sequences, or a
mutated human p-globin gene sequence encoding at least one antisickling amino acid
residue.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16696370_l.docx-23 03/2018
                                                               - 107
7.                The vector of Claim 6, wherein the mutated human p-globin gene sequence
comprises a human pA-globin gene sequence encoding a threonine to glutamine mutation
at codon 87                 (pA-T87Q)
8.                The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation.
9.                The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of about 10 to about 100 amino acids.
 10.              The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of 50 to 60 amino acids.
 11.              The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of 80 to 90 amino acids.
 12.              The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of 85 to 95 amino acids.
 13.              The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the tEpoR comprises a C-terminal
truncation of about 55, about 83, or about 91 amino acids.
 14.              The vector of any one of Claims I to 13, wherein the vector is a lentivirus vector.
 15.              The vector of any one of Claims I to 14, wherein the 5' LTR or 3' LTR is a
lentivirus LTR.
 16.              The vector of any one of Claims I to 14, wherein the 5' LTR and 3' LTR are
lentivirus LTRs.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16696370_l.docx-23 03/2018
                                                               - 108
 17.              The vector of any one of Claims 14 to 16, wherein the lentivirus is selected from
the group consisting of: human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), human
immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2), visna virus, caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus
(CAEV), equine infectious anemia virus (EIAV), feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV),
bovine immune deficiency virus (BIV), and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV).
 18.              The vector of any one of Claims 14 to 17, wherein the lentivirus is HIV-1.
 19.              The vector of any one of Claims I to 18, wherein the promoter of the 5' LTR is
replaced with a heterologous promoter.
20.               The vector of Claim 19, wherein the heterologous promoter is a cytomegalovirus
(CMV) promoter, a Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV)promoter, a thymidine kinase promoter, or
an Simian Virus 40 (SV40) promoter.
21.               The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 20, wherein the 3' LTR comprises one or
more modifications.
22.               The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 21, wherein the 3' LTR comprises one or
more deletions.
23.               The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 22, wherein the 3' LTR is a self-inactivating
(SIN) LTR.
24.               The vector of any one of Claims 1 to 23, wherein the p-globin LCR comprises one
or more of DNAase I hypersensitive sites 2, 3 and 4 from the human p-globin LCR.
25.               The vector of any one of Claims I to 24, further comprising one or more of a Psi
packaging sequence ('F), a central polypurine tract/DNA flap (cPPT/FLAP), a retroviral
export element, a posttranscriptional regulatory element, an insulator element, a
polyadenylation sequence, a selectable marker, and a cell suicide gene.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16696370_l.docx-23 03/2018
                                                               - 109
26.               The vector of any one of Claims I to 24, comprising a Psi packaging sequence
('F), a central polypurine tract/DNA flap (cPPT/FLAP), a retroviral export element, an
insulator element, and a polyadenylation sequence.
27.               A cell comprising a vector of any one of Claims I to 26.
28.               The cell of Claim 27, wherein the cell is selected from the group consisting of: an
embryonic stem cell, an adult stem cell, an adult progenitor cell, and a differentiated adult
cell.
29.               The cell of Claim 27, wherein the cell is a hematopoietic stem cell or a
hematopoietic progenitor cell.
30.               The cell of Claim 29, wherein the source of the hematopoietic stem or
hematopoietic progenitor cell is bone marrow, cord blood, placental blood, or peripheral
blood.
31.               A composition comprising the cell of Claim 27.
32.               The composition of Claim 31, further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                  <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2713>   <U+2714><U+2715>   <U+270C><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+2716><U+2718>
                       <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2716><U+2726><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2727><U+2727><U+2724><U+2726><U+2605><U+2716><U+271B>
              <U+2713> <U+2729><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+270F><U+272A><U+2723><U+272B><U+271A><U+272C><U+2721><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2721><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2711><U+272E><U+2721><U+272B><U+272F><U+2723><U+2730> <U+272A><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E><U+271A><U+272D><U+2720>
              <U+2713> <U+2731><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2732><U+270E><U+2732><U+272D><U+2733><U+2714><U+2714><U+2704><U+2734><U+2714><U+2714><U+2735><U+271A>
              <U+2713> <U+2701><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2736>
              <U+2713> <U+2737><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2723><U+2724><U+271E><U+2716><U+2726><U+271E><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2718><U+2738><U+271C><U+2739><U+2726> <U+2731><U+271D><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2704><U+2737><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724>   <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724>   <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724>    <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B>   <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724>   <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B>                             <U+2704><U+2737><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                    <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2701><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717>    <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717>   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B>                                        <U+2701><U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2737>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715>     <U+260E><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715>   <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715>   <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2704>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715>     <U+260E><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715>   <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715>   <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715>  <U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2704><U+2736><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E>    <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724>   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2701>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B>                     <U+2704><U+2736><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715>     <U+260E><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715>   <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715>   <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2729>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2737>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715>     <U+260E><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715>   <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715>   <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2731>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2736>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2737><U+2737><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724>    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>    <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724>    <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B>   <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E>         <U+2737><U+2737><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2704>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724>   <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E>    <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717>   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B>   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717>   <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B>   <U+2737><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B>   <U+2736><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B>   <U+2714><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2714><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716>   <U+2714>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B>   <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724>   <U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724>    <U+2701><U+2729><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E>    <U+2736><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724>    <U+2736><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E>    <U+2702><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717>    <U+2702><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2729><U+2714><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717>   <U+2729> <U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2729> <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>   <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2729><U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2729><U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>    <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715>     <U+2736><U+2729><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715>   <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715>   <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2737>
              <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724>     <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717>     <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E>     <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724>    <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717>    <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E>    <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E>    <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B>   <U+2737><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2736><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2714><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717>   <U+2714><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>   <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724>   <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>   <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724>   <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B>   <U+2737><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724>   <U+2736><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E>                                     <U+2736><U+2729><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715>     <U+2737><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715>   <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715>   <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2736>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B>    <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717>   <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B>   <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B>   <U+2737><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717>   <U+2737><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B>   <U+2736><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2714><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2714><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B>    <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717>   <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B>   <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E><U+273B> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B>   <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724>   <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E>   <U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2701><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724> <U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724>   <U+2737><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273B><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2724><U+2724><U+2724>         <U+2737><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2704><U+2714><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+260E><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2704><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2704>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2701>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2737>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716>   <U+2736>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2729>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                 <U+2729> <U+2714>                  <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2714>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2731>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2727><U+2739> <U+2738><U+2724><U+273A><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2729>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2731>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2704><U+2714><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2704>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+260E><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2704><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2701>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2704><U+2714>                   <U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2737>

                                               <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                         <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2737>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2736>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2736>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2714>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2702>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2729>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2738><U+273B><U+2605><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2731>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                       <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                    <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2704><U+2714><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2704>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                              <U+260E><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2704><U+2714><U+2704>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2701>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2729>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2737>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2731>
              <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2736>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2731><U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2736><U+2731>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+260E>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2714>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                    <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>               <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2731><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                      <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718>
                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2729><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2729>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2731>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+260E> <U+2714>                 <U+260E> <U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                          <U+260E><U+2729><U+2714>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+2723><U+272B><U+2711>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+272B><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2726><U+2739><U+2718><U+2722><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+273B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+2704>                    <U+2714>                   <U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E>
                      <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
              <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>                  <U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716>
                           <U+2714><U+2714>                  <U+2714><U+2704>                   <U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                        <U+2704>                  <U+2729><U+2714>                  <U+2729><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                   <U+2731><U+2714>                  <U+2731><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
               <U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2704><U+2714>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                               <U+2701><U+2704>                  <U+2737><U+2714>                  <U+2737><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718>
                           <U+2736><U+2714>                  <U+2736><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A>
                       <U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2714><U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E><U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2729> <U+2714>                 <U+2729> <U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2731><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738>
                              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2704><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716>
                          <U+2729><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2737><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
                      <U+2729><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2736><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2729><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2729><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272E><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725>
              <U+2731><U+2714><U+2704>                 <U+2731> <U+2714>                 <U+2731> <U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+2731><U+2729><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2731><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+273A> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739>
                          <U+2731><U+260E><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2738><U+2726> <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                      <U+2731><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2716><U+271E> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2738><U+273A>
                  <U+2731><U+2737><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2737><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2736><U+2714>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+2605> <U+272F><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2725><U+2738> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2725> <U+2711><U+273C><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2718><U+2739> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2723><U+273C><U+2716> <U+2712><U+271B><U+2605>
              <U+2731><U+2736><U+2704>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2714>                 <U+2731><U+2702><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2724><U+271B><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271B><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2737>
              <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+2717><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717><U+2724><U+273B><U+2724><U+2717><U+273B><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2717>                                                                   <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2736>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2715> <U+272D><U+270C><U+272F>
              <U+2713><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2724><U+271B><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2724><U+271B><U+271B><U+2605><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2736>
              <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2717><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2724><U+2717> <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717><U+2724><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+273B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E><U+271E><U+2724><U+273B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+273B><U+273B><U+273B><U+271E><U+2717><U+2717><U+2717>                      <U+260E><U+2702>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2704>

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2701>
                                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>

