                                          ABSTRACT
       The subject invention relates to novel soluble forms of planar ring structured organic
compounds including flavonoids, and their production. The invention also includes the use of
these novel formulations of planar ring structured organic compounds in the preparation of
formulations and products. The invention also relates to a wide variety of applications of the
formulations of the invention. The subject invention includes novel soluble forms and various
formulations of flavonoids. Further, the invention includes novel methods of manufacturing the
flavonoid formulations. The invention also relates to a wide variety of applications of the
flavonoid formulations.

 METHODS OF INCREASING SOLUBILITY OF POORLY SOLUBLE COMPOUNDS
        AND METHODS OF MAKING AND USING FORMULATIONS OF SUCH
                                          COMPOUNDS
        This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>,
filed on 6 April 2016, which itself is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2011318580, filed on 24 October 2011, and is related to International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2011/001802, filed on 24 October 2011 and claims priority from U.S. Application No.
13/064,882, filed on 22 April 2011 and International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2010/002821, filed on 22 October 2010 which itself claims priority from U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/253,857, filed on 22 October 2009; each of which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
        The subject invention relates to novel soluble forms of planar ring structured organic
compounds including flavonoids, and their production. The invention also includes the use of
these novel formulations of planar ring structured organic compounds in the preparation of
formulations and products. The invention also relates to a wide variety of applications of the
formulations of the invention.
Background of the Art
Flavonoids
        The principle plant-derived agents believed to provide protection against cancer are
flavonoids and dietary fiber. (Patel,D, et al., Apigenin and cancer chemoprevention: Progress,
potential, andpromise, Intl. J Oncology 2007 Jan; 30(1): 233-45.) Chemoprevention is a facet
of oncology that focuses on the prevention of cancer through naturally occurring or synthetic
agents.
        Flavonoids have been shown to act as free radical scavengers, anti-oxidants, superoxide
anions, UV absorbers, and lipid peroxide radicals. Flavonoid compounds are also known to be
effective in strengthening collagen structures. Further, flavonoids have been shown to exhibit
anti-mutagenic, anti-inflammatory, and antiviral effects.
        All flavonoids have the same basic chemical structure, a three-ringed molecule.
                                                   1

    tM dunt,, aatloids m a gfmup      tltt rrmmecwhother by                 Vonube 1hd osLd of
subiuo...      g s the bydrox,     ,neihoxy, or 1SUwa Stoups F1avtnodds baa 1 Me p~tarariti
fltg  sj]tur      ] 6,'aai  'gie-a   fnthis
                           0T~               ..             01,    ~,           -

             Flavonoids comprise approximately 5,000 naturally occurring compounds. A multitude of other
substitutions can be created synthetically, giving rise to the many types of flavonoids.
             Many flavonoids are practically insoluble in water and almost all solvents suitable for pharmaceutical,
nutraceutical (fortified foods and dietary supplements), cosmeceutical and medical food applications. Thus, there
is a need for methods for enhancing the solubility and bioavailability of these flavonoids including flavones and
other planar ring structured organic compounds by utilizing acceptable ingredients and methods.
 Solubilization of Active Agents
              An active agent is the substance in a composition that is biologically active. Solubility is one of the
 important parameters to achieve a desired concentration of an active agent in solution for a pharmacological
 response to be elicited. Solubility plays an essential role in drug disposition, since it is only that drug in solution
 that'is able to diffuse through a biological matrix or passively transport across a biological membrane. The
 maximum rate for drug absorption is a product of permeability and solubility. Drug efficacy can be severely
 limited by poor aqueous solubility. It is commonly recognized in the pharmaceutical industry that on average
 more than 40% of newly discovered drug candidates are poorly water-soluble. Poor solubility properties of drugs
  leads to ineffective absorption from the site of administration; which has been designated as an important part of
  the high clinical failure due to poor pharmacokinetics (Liu, R., Introduction, In: Liu, R., (Ed.), Water-Insoluble
  Drug Formulation, 2 "ded. 2008, CRS press, New York).
            There are many techniques that have been used to enhance the solubility of active agents. They include
  the use of complexing ligands such as cyclodextrins which increase the aqueous solubility of poorly soluble active
  agents by encapsulating them into the hydrophobic bucket shaped cavity of the cyclodextrin molecule; the nano
  sizing of active agents to nano-sized crystals; the use of active agent salt forms (which tend to exhibit improved
  aqueous solubility and dissolution properties in comparison to the original active agent); and the alteration of the
  active agents pH microenvironment; etc.
            When formulating topical drug products, the active pharmaceutical ingredient is typically added to
  solvent or solvent mixture to dissolve or disperse the ingredient with mixing or homogenation. Heat, typically in
  the range of 35 'C to 70 *C, has been used to melt low melting point excipients of the formulation to aid in
  mixing. Heat is kept to a minimum to prevent decomposition, separation upon reaching the cloud point, or loss
  due to evaporation of any of the excipients or active ingredient.
             When forming an emulsion, the active agent is added to either the aqueous or lipid phase of the
   formulation (generally that phase with the highest solubility for the active agent). One or both phases can be
                                                               2

 heated in the same range of temperatures noted above either prior to or during mixing of the two phases to make
 the emulsion.
           Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) has been widely used in both in vitro and in vivo studies as a solvent for
 many water insoluble compounds including apigenin. However, due to toxicity and "taste" concerns, dimethyl
 sulfoxide is not widely used as a solvent when a topical formulation is considered for human applications. Nearly
 all apigenin animal studies devoted to anti-skin cancer topical treatments have utilized dimethyl sulfoxide
 (DMSO) as the solvent of choice due to apigenin's poor solubility in water (< 0.005 milligram per milliliter
 (mg/ml)) and other aqueous solvents. (Li et al, Evaluationof Apigenin and [G-3H], Apigenin and analytical
 method development, J. of PharmaceuticalSciences. Vol. 86, No. 6, June 1997).
 Skin Cancer
           The development of skin cancer is a major global public health threat. Ultraviolet (UV), e.g., solar
 ultraviolet B (UVB) and solar ultraviolet (UVA), radiation are the main causes of skin cancer. The incidences of
 basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and melanoma continue to rise despite the advent and use of
 sunscreen agents with high SPF constituents. Early detection and treatment are essential in improving survival
rates, yet skin cancer is a cancer that is largely preventable altogether. Current sunscreen formulations have
proven inadequate for fully protecting persons from the DNA-damaging effects of UV radiation. Sunscreen usage
 may sometimes create a false sense of safety as individuals may over expose themselves to sunlight.
           Studies have demonstrated that flavones possess anti-oxidant, anti-mutagenic, anti-carcinogenic, anti
 inflammatory, anti-proliferative, and anti-progression properties. (Patel,D, et al., Apigenin and cancer
chemoprevention: Progress,potential,and promise, Intl. J. Oncology 2007 Jan; 30(1): 233-45.) In addition, Birt
and coworkers used an in vivo mouse model to demonstrate that topical application of apigenin prior to UVB
irradiation significantly reduced, by up to 90%, the incidence of skin cancer. (Birt et al., Anti-mutagenesis and
anti-promotion by apigenin, robinetin and indole-3-carbinol, Carcinogenesis, June 1986; 7: 959 - 963) Other
groups have demonstrated apigenin's ability to protect mice against colon cancer. (Wang et al, Cell cycle arrest
at G2/M and growth inhibition by apigeninin human cell colon carcinoma cell lines, Molecular Carcinogenesis,
28: 102-110 (2000))
             Loss of Gl/S and/or G2/M cell cycle checkpoint controls leads to transformation and cancer
progression. Initiation and progression through the cell cycle is largely controlled by proto-oncogenes that
promote cell proliferation and tumor suppressor genes that function to slow or halt cell growth. Mutations in
either proto-oncogenes and/or tumor suppressor genes predispose cells to a compromised GUS checkpoint by
shortening the length of time spent in GI or G2/M.
             Researchers have found that apigenin induces reversible, cell-cycle arrests at GI and G2/M phase of
the cell cycle. It was further discovered that apigenin mediates an inhibition on the cell cycle through multiple
                                                            3

mechanisms including direct and indirect inhibition of the mitotic kinase p34cdc2, as well as the induction of the
cell cycle inhibitor p2lWAF1 in a p53-dependent manner. Theoretically, the net effect allows UV induced DNA
mutations to be repaired properly prior to cell division. (Lepley DM, et at., The chemopreventativeflavonoid
apigenin induces G2/M arrest in keratinocytes, Carcinogenesis,17, 236-75 (1996))
             Other Skin Disorders
           Kang, Ecklund, Liu & Datta, (Arthritis Research & Therapy 2009, Vol. 11) taught that increasing the
bioavailability of dietary plant-derived COX-2 and NF-KB inhibitors, such as apigenin, could be valuable for
 suppressing inflammation in lupus and other Thl7-mediated diseases like psoriasis. Apigenin, a non-mutagenic
 dietary flavonoid, suppresses lupus by inhibiting autoantigen presentation for expansion of autoreactive Thl and
 Thl7 cells.
           Other Diseases
           As is typical for phenolic compounds, flavonoids act as potent antioxidants and metal chelators. They
 also have long been recognized to possess antiinflammatory, antiallergic, hepatoprotective, antithrombotic,
 antiviral, and anticarcinogenic activities.
            The flavones and catechins are very powerful flavonoids for protecting the body against reactive oxygen
 species (ROS). Body cells and tissues are continuously threatened by the damage caused by free radicals and ROS
  which are produced during normal oxygen metabolism or are induced by exogeneous damage. The anti
  inflammatory activity of flavonoids in many animal models has been reported. Flavones/flavonols such as
  apigenin, luteolin, kaempferol, quercetin, myricetin, fisetin were reported to possess Lipoxygenase (LO) and
  Cyclo-oxygenase (COX) inhibitory activities. Jachak SM. Naturalproducts: Potentialsource of COX inhibitors.
  CRIPS 2001; 2(1):12-15.
              PCT/US2006/020905 to Doseff discloses methods of treating inflammation with apigenin or its
  derivatives.
               US Patent application US 2008/0227829 to Hammerstone discloses methods of treating subjects with a
  neurogenic compound including apigenin.
               U.S. Patent application US 2007/0154540 to Park et al discloses the use of apigenin as a
  chondroregenerative agent for the treatment of osteoarthritis.
               U.S. Patent application US 2007/0189680 to Bing-Hua et al discloses the use of apigenin for
  chemoprevention and chemotherapy combined with therapeutic reagents.
                                                             4

             U.S. Patent application US 2006/0067905 to Lintnera et al discloses the use of apigenin as a
vasodilatory agent for treating baldness.
          Research studies have provided evidence that apigenin plays a critical role in the amelioration of the
pathogenetic process of asthma. Recent epidemiological studies reported that a low incidence of asthma was
significantly observed in a population with a high intake of flavonoids.
           Hvaluronic Acid
             Hyaluronic acid (HA) is an anionic, nonsulfated glycosaminoglycan distributed widely throughout
connective, epithelial, and neural tissues. It is unique among glycosaminoglycans in that it.is nonsulfated, forms in
the plasma membrane instead of the Golgi, and can be very large, with its molecular weight often reaching the
 millions. One of the chief components of the extracellular matrix, HA contributes significantly to cell proliferation
 and migration.
           Polysaccharides such as HA are relatively complex carbohydrates. Polysaccharides are polymers made
 up of many monosaccharides joined together by glycosidic bonds. The polysaccharides are therefore large, often
 branched, macromolecules. Polysaccharides have been useful in cosmetic and medical applications. For example,
 HA finds use as a structure stabilizing filler for dermal applications. Apigenin has antihyaluronidase activity;
 thereby inhibiting the breakdown of hyaluronic acid. (Kuppusamy et al., Structure-activitystudies offlavonoids
 as inhibitors of hyaluronoidase,Biochem Pharmacol,40, 397-401 (1990).
           U.S. Patent application 2005/0271692 to Gervasio-Nugent et al discloses topical cosmetic compositions
 which include flavonoids and hyaluronic acid.
           U.S. Patent application 2006/021625 to Morariu discloses topical formulation and methods of use for
  improving the appearance of aged skin. Preferred components include flavonoids such as apigenin and hyaluronic
  acid.
            Polvsorbate Surfactants
            Polysorbates (commercially also known as Tweens) are nonionic surfactants and emulsifiers derived
  from polyethoxylated sorbitan and fatty acids. They are often used in foods and in cosmetics to solubilize
  essential oils into water-based products. The polysorbates are viscous, water-soluble pale yellow liquids.
  Polysorbates also help to form emulsions by reducing the surface tension of the substances to be emulsified.
  Polysorbates have been recognized for their ability to help ingredients to dissolve in a solvent in which they
  would not normally dissolve. Polysorbates function to disperse oil in water as opposed to water in oil.
                                                             5

Polysorbates are produced by reacting the polyol, sorbitol, with ethylene oxide. The polyoxyethylenated sorbitan
is then reacted with fatty acids obtained from vegetable fats and oils such as stearic acid, lauric acid, and oleic
acid. Surfactants that are esters of plain (non-PEG-ylated) sorbitan with fatty acids are usually referred to by the
name Span.
            U.S. Patent 7,329,797 to Gupta discloses antiaging cosmetic delivery systems which includes the use of
flavonoids including apigenin as an anti inflammatory agent and polysorbate surfactants as emulsifying agents,
          U.S. Patent Application 2006/0229262 to Higuchiet al disclose pharmaceutical compositions for the
treatment of infections for treatment of infections with a drug resistant bacteria infections with agents including
flavonoids such as apigenin as an active ingredient and polysorbates as emulsifying agents.
          US Patent 6,048,566 to Behnam discloses non-alcoholic beverages and processes of making them. The
patent discloses mixing ubiquinone Q10 and a polysorbate solubilizer.
             Polvethylene Glycols
             Poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), otherwise known as poly(oxyethylene) or poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO), is
a synthetic polyether that is readily available in a range of molecular weights (MW). Materials with MW
<I 00,000 are usually called PEGs, while higher molecular weight polymers are classified as PEOs. These
polymers are amphiphilic and soluble in water as well as in many organic solvents. Low molecular weight (MW
<1,000) PEGs are viscous and colorless liquids, while higher molecular weight PEGs are waxy, white solids with
melting points proportional to their molecular weights to an upper limit of about 67 *C. PEG has been found to be
nontoxic and is approved by the FDA for use as a surfactant or as a carrier in different pharmaceutical
formulations, foods, and cosmetics. Most PEGs with MW >1,000 are rapidly removed from the body unaltered
with clearance rates inversely proportional to polymer molecular weight. This property, combined with the
availability of PEGs with a wide range of end-functions, contributes to the wide use of PEGs in biomedical
research: drug delivery, tissue engineering scaffolds, surface functionalization, and many other applications.
                                                *        *        *
          In view of the foregoing, it is most desirable to improve the solubility of poorly soluble compounds
including flavonoids. It is also desirable to incorporate flavonoids, such as the flavones apigenin and luteolin, as
part of topical formulations to aid in the prevention and/or treatment of skin damage or skin cancer resulting from
the effects of sun exposure and also to provide a skin treatment composition useful in the treatment of a variety of
dermatological conditions.
                                                            6

Summary of the Invention
           The subject invention relates to a composition comprising i) a planar ring structured organic compound,
and ii) a heat stable solubilizing compound, wherein the concentration of the planar ring structured organic
compound is greater than the saturation concentration of the planar ring structured organic compound in said heat
stable solubilizing compound, and said composition is not supersaturated. The heat stable solubilizing compound
is typically a nonionic surfactant such as a polysorbate. The composition also typically includes a carrier.
           The subject invention relates to compositions comprising a planar ring structured organic compound,
such as a flavonoid, and a heat stable solubilizing compound such as a surfactant, wherein the composition is
formed by: mixing the planar ring structured organic compound and the solubilizing compound to an elevated
temperature (typically > 100 0 C) where said planar ring structured organic compound is dissolved in the
solubilizing compound. When the dissolved mixture is cooled to ambient temperatures, the planar ring structured
organic compound remains dissolved even at concentrations exceeding the ambient temperature saturation
concentration level.
             The composition optionally includes an alcohol selected from the group consisting of ethanol, small
   chain alcohols (such as isopropyl and benzyl alcohol), ethoxydiglycol (diethylene glycol monoethyl ether or
   Transcutol), propylene glycol, hexylene glycol, butylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, glycerin, water, saline,
   DMSO, isopropyl myristate, mineral oil, low viscosity surfactants, and dimethyl isosorbide.
           In a preferred embodiment, the composition is a pharmaceutical composition and the carrier is a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The composition can include hyaluronic acid, and/or a penetration enhancer.
In one embodiment the composition is in the form of an emulsion or microemulsion. The composition can be, for
example, a pharmaceutical composition, a nutraceutical (fortified foods or a dietary supplement), cosmeceutical, a
food supplement, or medical food.
           Another embodiment of the invention is a patch for application of a planar ring structured organic
compound, such as a flavonoid, transdermally comprising a substrate having two sides, a first side having a
composition of the invention and an adhesive (with a release liner), and a second side with a material which is
impermeable to the composition and adhesive on the first side. In another embodiment, the patch comprises a
substrate having two sides, the first side having a liquid reservoir containing a composition of the invention and a
semipermeable membrane and an adhesive layer attached to the underside of the semipermeable membrane (with
a release liner) and a second side with a material which is impermeable to the composition and to the adhesive on
the first side.
             Another embodiment of the invention is a method of preparing a solubilized planar ring structured
  organic compound, such as a flavonoid composition comprising: mixing a planar ring structured organic
                                                            7

    compound, such as flavonoid particles, with a heat stable solubilizing compound, such as a surfactant, to form a
    mixture, heating the mixture to a temperature where the planar ring structured organic compound is solubilized,
    and cooling the solution. In an advantageous embodiment, the heat stable     solubilizing compound is a nonionic
    surfactant. Typically, the mixture is stirred while heating, and up to 10 wt % of a planar ring structured organic
    compound, such as a flavonoid compound, is added. In an advantageous embodiment, the surfactant is a
    polysorbate. After the heating or cooling step is the step of adding the solution to a dermatological, oral,
    injectable, periodontal, dermal patch, or aerosol carrier. A small chain alcohol selected from the group
    consisting of ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, benzyl alcohol, ethoxydiglycol and dimethyl isosorbide, can be
    added to the solution.
           The invention also relates to method of increasing the solubility of a poorly soluble planar ring structured
organic compound composition comprising: i) mixing the planar ring structured organic compound with a heat
stable solubilizing compound to form a mixture, ii) heating the mixture to a temperature where the planar ring
structured organic compound particles are solubilized to form a solution, and iii) cooling the solution.
            The invention also relates to a method of reducing and/or preventing the effects of sun exposure
comprising applying a therapeutically effective amount of a sunscreen formulation to the skin comprising a
solubilized planar ring structured organic compound, such as a flavonoid, and a carrier that permits delivery of the
planar ring structured organic compound, such as a flavonoid, to the stratus comeum and- the epidermis. In another
embodiment, the formulation additionally comprises mineral oxides to provide additional ultraviolet sun exposure
protection.
           In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of treating the effects of sun exposure
comprising applying a therapeutically effective amount of a formulation to sun damaged skin comprising a
solubilized planar ring structured organic compound, such as a flavonoid, and a carrier that permits delivery of the
flavonoid to the stratus corneum and the epidermis.
             In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of reducing the likelihood of or treating
   cancer in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment a prophylactic amount or
   a therapeutically effective amount of a formulation of the invention.
             In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of treating inflammation in a mammal
   comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a
   formulation of the invention.
             In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of restoring normal skin barrier function in a
  mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of
  a formulation of the invention such as a flavonoid formulation.
                                                             8

        In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of treating a skin disease or
disorder such as acne, alopecia, dermal sensitization and irritation, dry skin (xerosis,
ichthyosis), fungal infections, and rosacea, contact dermatosis, in a mammal comprising
administering to a mammal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a
formulation of the invention.
        In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of treating autoimmune
disease such as psoriasis, lupus, and arthritis in a mammal comprising administering to a
mammal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a formulation of the
invention.
        In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of treating allergies, asthma,
atopic dermatitis/eczema comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment a
therapeutically effective amount of a formulation of the invention.
        In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of treating or reducing the
likelihood of a TNF related disease in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in
need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount or a prophylactic amount of a
flavonoid formulation of the invention.
        In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method of treating or reducing the
likelihood of an IL-1IP related disease in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in
need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount or a prophylactic amount of a
flavonoid formulation of the invention.
        A definition of the specific embodiment of the invention claimed herein follows.
        In a broad format, the invention provides a composition comprising:
        a concentrate formed by mixing a polyphenol with a non ionic surfactant, in the absence
of a carrier, to form a mixture, and heating said mixture to a temperature of greater than 150 'C
to form said concentrate, wherein upon cooling to room temperature the concentrate is not
supersaturated, and the concentration of said polyphenol is greater than the saturation
concentration of said polyphenol in said non ionic surfactant.
                                                   0

Description of the Drawings
Figure 1 shows surfactant classification according to their head: nonionic, anionic, cationic and
amphoteric.
Figure 2 is a mass spectroscopy plot indicating insignificant chemical composition differences
between the unprocessed polysorbate 80 control sample and the thermally treated polysorbate
80 sample.
Figure 3 is a graphical plot illustrating the apigenin content deposited within the epidermal,
dermal and receptor fluid segments of human tissues for several applied topical formulations
containing various apigenin concentrations.
                                    [Text continues on page 10.]
                                                  9a

Detailed Description of the Invention
             The subject invention relates to new formulations of planar ring structured organic compounds, such as
    a flavonoids. Included are pharmaceutical compositions, nutraceuticals, cosmeceuticals, food supplements, and
    medical foods, containing such formulations, as well as methods for making and using the same.
           Solubility is an important parameter for the topical and oral bioavailability of poorly soluble planar ring
structured organic compound, such as a flavonoid. Dissolution of a drug can be the rate determining step of a
poorly water soluble drug for oral absorption and topical absorption. Drug solubility is also the basic requirement
for the formulation and development of different dosage forms where the drug is intended to be in solution.
Because of solubility problems associated with many planar ring structured organic compounds, such as a
flavonoids, their bioavailability is limited and hence solubility enhancement becomes necessary. The methods of
making and using novel soluble forms of poorly soluble planar ring structured organic compounds taught in this
disclosure, address the enhancement of poorly soluble ring structured organic compounds.
           The subject invention relates to adding a planar ring structured organic compound, such as a flavonoid,
to a heat stable surfactant and then heating the mixture up to an elevated temperature (typically > 100 degrees C),
not exceeding the boiling point or decomposition point of either the active agent (e.g. flavonoid) or the heat stable
solubilizing agent (e.g. surfactant), and then cooling the mixture. It was unexpectedly observed that this process
can enhance dissolution, and a significantly higher concentration of the planar ring structured organic compound
in solution with the surfactant can be achieved. Furthermore, the resulting solution "concentrate" is not
supersaturated. The molar ratio of active agent to solubilizing agent is typically 1:2 to 1:5, and at times much
greater, e.g. 1:2 to 1:20 depending on the active agent/surfactant combination. While not wishing to be bound by
theory, it is believed that the heat necessary to facilitate dissolution is needed to overcome the bonds associated
with self-associated stacking of the planar ring structured organic compounds -which limits their solubility. Upon
dissolution of these planar ring structured organic compounds with heat in the heat stable solubilizing agent,'the
solubilizing molecules coat or sandwich these planar compounds-ie the heat stable solubilizing agent and the
planar compound "associate" or form a "complex." Upon cooling to room temperature, the concentrates are not
supersaturated solutions even though the concentrations of the compounds are greater than their saturation
concentration at ambient conditions- room temperature (temperature below that necessary to overcome the planar
ring structured organic compound self-associated stacking forces). The concentrate is stable and the compounds
(or active agents) stay in solution for periods of time sufficient for making formulations from the concentrates.
      These planar ring structured organic compound concentrates can be used to formulate compositions with a
higher concentration of the compounds in solution than that achievable without the use of the concentrates. That
is, these concentrates can be used to prepare formulations that have the planar ring structured organic compounds
at a higher concentration in solution than that achievable by a) use of standard formulation preparation techniques,
                                                             10

or b) mixing of the planar ring structured organic compounds with a surfactant and excipients all together, and
then heating to an elevated temperature.
I - Compounds of the Invention
          The present invention relates to molecules that are planar with at least one ring structure that allow for a
stacking arrangement. The ring structure can be an aromatic structure. Those molecules that do stack
characteristically have a high melting point and demonstrate poor solubility. It is the poor solubility characteristics
that typically limit practically for use of these compounds in topical products and drug formulations. As used
herein, the term "poor solubility" means having a solubility in water or oil less than  1 mg/ml, and particularly less
than 0.1 mg/ml.
Examples of planar ring structured organic compounds with poor solubility include the following important
classes of active agents:
Class 1. The camptothecin analogs are used as antineoplastic agents and are sparingly soluble in water. The
methods of the present invention can be applied to solubilize these agents. Included are camptothecin, topotecan
and irinotecan and compounds with other substitutions for R10, R9 and R7
                                    R9    R7
                          R 10                         0
                                                   N
                                          N
                                                           0
                                                      OH O
                                       R10                        R9                     R7
 Camptothecin                           H                         H                      H
  Topotecan                             OH                  (CH3)2 NHCH2~                H
  Irinotecan                         CN         N 0-             H                      CH3CH2~
Class 2. The guanidine nucleosides used as antivirals and in particular antiherpes treatments. Such agents have
limited water solubility. Included are acyclovir, penciclovir, ganciclovir, and compounds with other substitutions
for R.
                                                          11

                                                     0
                                            H2N      N      N
                                                            R,
                                    Acyclovir R1= CH2 0CH 2 CH2OH
                                    Penciclovir R1= CH2 CH2 CH(CH 2OH) 2
                                    Ganciclovir R1= CH 2 0CH(CH 2OH) 2
Class 3. The benzodiazepines are CNS active drugs for depression and anxiety. These tricyclic agents are
sparingly soluble in water and can be solubilized using the methods of the invention. Such compounds include
alprazolam, oxazepam, and all related agents of the general formula.
                             0                                         0
                                  OH
                        HN                                           N
                           /    N           Oxazepam              /       ,N            Diazopam
                    CI                                           Cl
                          N-N                                          X
                                         \                                    R3.
                           N               Alprazolam               HN            Generic benzodiazapine
                                  N                                         N.
                                                               R,
                      Cl
                                                                                R2
 Class 4. The tertiary anime tricyclic antidepressants can be made soluble with treatment with mineral acids and as
 acid salts. The methods of this invention solubilize these agents without the use of acids. Such compounds
 include amitriptyline, clomipramine, doxepin and all related compounds such as maprotiline and protriptyline
                                                             X,
                                           RI                   X1              X2
          Amitriptyline                     H                   CH 2            C=CCH 2CH2N(CH 3)2
          Clomipramine                      Cl                  CH 2            NCH 2CH2 CH2 N(CH 3)2
          Doxepin                           H                   0               C=CCH 2CH2 N(CH 3)2
                                                           12

Class 5. The tricyclic phenothiazines are used as antipsychotics and can be solubilized by the methods of the
invention without the use of strong acids. Such compounds include chlorpromazine, chlorprothixene and related
tricyclics
                                                                    R2
                                                         R1
                                               X              R1                              R2
               Chlorpromazine                N                CH2CH 2CH 2 N(CH 3 )2           Cl
               Chlorprothixene               C                =CCH2 CH 2 N(CH 3 )2            Cl
               Thioridazine                  N              -CH  2 CH2                        SCH 3
                                                                    H3CN
 Class 6. The tricyclic iminostilbenes are used as anticonvulsants and can be solubilized by the methods of the
 invention. Such compounds are carbamazepine, oxcabazepine and all related tricyclic iminostilbenes.
                                                                            0
                                     N                                         N
                                  O      NH2                                 0      NH2
                              Carbamazepine                              Oxcarbazepine
 Class 7. The method of the present invention can also be applied to nonfused ring systems. Such compounds
  include dilantin and the dicarbatnates, felbamate and levetiracetam which are all very water insoluble anti-seizure
  medications. Other related compounds are also included.
                                                                      O      H
                                   /H         0
                                                                      0N
                                                                                NH
                                           NH
                                                                             0
                                      \
                                   Dilantin                              Primidone
                                      H 2N     0
                                            00
                                                                           N
                                               O     O
                                                     0                   -         NH2
                                                  NH2
                                  Felbamate                            Levetiracetam
  Class 8. Many of the dihydrofolic acids analogs are sparingly soluble in water. The method of the present
  invention can be applied to this class of agents including methotrexate and trimetrxate which are used for psoriasis
  and autoimmune diseases. Related compounds are included,
                                                             13

                                                                                    CH3
          H2N      N                                                H2N       N
                                                   H     kH
                   NH2                             N   l   OH                 NH2                         OCH3
                                                O                                                    OCH3
                   Methotrexate                        0    OH                    Trimetrexate
Class 9. The sulfa antibacterials can be solubilized by the methods of the present invention. Such compounds
include sulfamethoxazole, sulfadoxine and all related sulfa antibacterial compounds.
                                                                                          OCH 3
                                                     0                                      N
                                       0 0       N-                        0 H03
                                                                                 CO
                                                    N                       '    N        N
                           H2N                                H2N                         N
                                 Sulfametoxazole                              Sulfadoxine
 Class 10. Several sulfa drugs are also carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and are useful for the treatment of glaucoma,
 ulcers, and as diuretics. These compounds have poor water solubility and can be solubilized by the methods of
 the present invention. Such compounds include ethoxzolamide, acetazolamide, and the anticonvulsant sultiam.
                                                       H                                0
                               N-S()
                              >-39                     NY  I>- S0SONLSO2
                                                                    2                                    50
                     0       S     NH 2            0       NN~                         NH 2                  2
                    Ethoxzolamide                     Acetazolamide                         Sultiame
  Class 11. The anthracycline anticancer agents are tetracyclines with poor water solubility. Such compounds
  include doxorubicin (adriamycin), daunorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin, and all related compounds.
                          0    OH            0                                 0     OH           0
                                                  HR
                                           'O0H    OH                              I"OH
                    0O         OH$           0                        70       O     OH O'R2
                        Doxorubicin                OH                   Generic anthracycline
                                             NH2
   Class 12. The epipodophyllotoxins are useful and anticancer agents. The methods of the present invention can be
   used to solublize compounds in this class. Such agents include etoposide, teniposide and all related compounds.
                                                           14

                                          HOHO           O H
                                               0,~
                                               O            H        Etoposide R= CH3
                                                            H   O    Teniposide R= 2-thiophenyl
                                               H3CO          OCH 3
                                                         OH
Class 13. Certain of the pyrimidine nucleoside analogs are poorly soluble in water and are useful as
antineoplastic agents, for psoriasis, or to inhibit the growth of DNA viruses.
Compounds in this class are 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), floxuridine, gemcitabine, zidovudine, stavudine, and all related
compounds.
                                            0                                                      NH 2
                                                   R2                                       O            R2
                           R1                          R2                                        R1                R2
                                    HO                                                  HO
 Floxuridine      HO                                  F            Gemcitibine                        FH
                  HO     OH                                                              HO     OH    F
 Idoxuridine                                           I           Zalcitabine                                      H
                   HO OH                                                                                OH
 Trifluridine                                         CF3           Lamivudine                                      H
                          OH
 Class 14. Similar to the pyrirriidine nucleosides, the adenine and guanidine based chemotherapeutics which are
 useful vs DNA viruses, are also sparingly soluble in water unless combined with strong acids. The method of the
 present invention can solublize these agents in water without the use of strong acids. Compounds included in this
 class include didanosine and abacavir and all related compounds.
                                     O                                  HN
                               HN           N                          N   ~     N
                                     N       NH                   2N      N
                              HO
                                Didanosine                            Abacavir       '-OH
                                                             15

Class 15. Certain selective estrogen receptor modulators have found use as treatments for breast cancer,
osteoporosis and contraception. Many of these poly phenyl agents have low solubility in water unless combined
with strong acids. The methods of the present invention are useful for increasing the water solubility without the
use of acids. Such agents include tamoxifen, clomiphene, lasofoxifene and all related agents.
                 OCH 2CH2N(R1 )2                                                   N
                                      Tamoxifen R1 = Me; R2 = Et                         Lasofoxifene
                            R         Clomiphene R1 = Et; R2 = C1
                                                            HO
Class 16. Still other selective estrogen receptor modulators belong to another structural class. One such agent is
raloxifene which is useful for treating osteoporosis and other estrogen related diseases. In the absence of strong
acids or very low PH raloxifene is sparingly soluble in water. The methods of the present invention can increase
the solubility of this and related agents.
                       HO          S
                                                      OH
                                                                         Raloxifene
                                                             N
 Class 17. The progesterones are a class of steroidal hormones and agents affecting the female reproduction cycle.
 Such agents include megesterol acetate and medroxyprogesterone and all related agents and are used in many
 areas of human and animal health. All the compounds in this class are sparingly soluble in water. Solubility in
 water can be improved by application of the methods of the present invention.
                                    O                                  0                                     0
                                                                                                                 O
                                                                                                      1H
                         0~                  00    04Ac
             Progesterone                      Megesterol Acetate                       Medroxyprogesterone
 Class 18. The estrogens are a class of steroid hormones that affect the female reproductive cycle, development,
 and maturation. Such compounds include estradiol, estradiol valerate, mestranol, estrone and all related analogs.
 All of the compounds in this class are sparingly soluble in water. Solubility can be improved by application of the
 methods of the present invention.
                                                           16

                                                                  OR,
                                                                     R2
                                                                       R4
                                               R,0
                                            R1               R2             R3                R4
                        Estradiol            H               H              H                 H
                        Estradiol Valerate   H               H              CO(CH 2)3 CH3     H
                        Estriol              H               H              H                 OH
                        Mestranol            CH3           CHCH             H                 H
                                                                  0
                                               HO
                                                     Estrone
Class 19. The testosterones and the nortestosterones are steroid hormones affecting the reproductive cycle in
humans and which also affect growth, development and maturation and related processes. The anabolic steroids
also belong to this class. Such agents include methyltestosterone, oxandrolone, danazol and a many related
compounds within the class. Like most of the steroids, these compounds are sparingly soluble in water and may
be solubilized by the methods of the present invention.
                       OH                  0                     OH                    OH                     OH
                                                O
                                                                    0/
                                                                                          NI
 0                   0                      0                    0                         '0
    Testosterone         Testosterone      Methyltestosterone       Oxandrolone                  Danazol
                         cypionate
                                                OH                                              OH
                         O                                               0
                             Nortestosterone                                Norethindrone
 Class 20. The corticosteroids are useful for the treatment of inflammation, carbohydrate and lipid metabolic
 syndromes and for other disease states. Such compounds include hydrocortisone, fludrocortisone, dexamethasone
 and all related agents. These corticosteroids are sparingly soluble in water but can be made more soluble by
 application of the methods of the present invention.
                                                            17

                                                                   OH
                                                                      0
                                                                     OH
                                               R2                       R4
                                                        R3
                                           0
                                       R1                R2                     R3                    R4
           Hydrocortisone              OH                Single Bond            H                     H
           Fludrocortisone             OH                Single Bond            F                     H
           Dexamethasone               OH                Double Bond            F                     CH 3
           Cortisone                   C=O               Single Bond            H                     H
Class 21. The glitizones are a class of compounds used to treat hyperglycemia and insulin resistance. Such
compounds include rosiglitazone, pioglitazone, troglitizone and all related analogs. These compounds are only
sparingly soluble in water, but the solubility can be improved by application of the methods of the present
invention.
                                                S                                                       S
                                                 S;, 0                                                  N   O
             N     N         O                   NH                    N                                H
                   Rosiglitazone                                                   Pioglitazone
 Class 22. The quinone class of agents which include atovaquone, buparvaquone and parvaquone are useful as
 antiprotozoal drugs. These agents and all of their analogs tend to be sparingly soluble in water. They can be
 solubilized by application of the methods of the present invention.
                                    O0                                                             0
                             HO                                                             HO
                                                                      0                            0
                                                           Buparvaquone                      parvaquone
           CI              Atovaquone
 Class 23. The quinoline class of agents which include mefloquine, primaquine, cloroquine and all related analogs
 are useful as antimalarials. These agents are soluble in strong acid or as their acid salts. The methods of the
 present invention can solublize these agents in water without the use of strong acids.
                                                                CF3
                        CI          N                                N    CF,
                                                                          H
                                                                 HO       N
                                   HN
                             Chloroquine                       Mefloquine
                                                           18

Class 24. Piroxicam and meloxicam and their related analogs are useful to treat pain, swelling, and other related
symptoms. These agents are sparingly soluble in water. These agents and all related analogs can be solubilized
by application of the present invention.
                              S OCH3                                  S    CH3
                                       H                                       H
                                       N    N                                  N      S
                              OH O       N-                           OHO         N
                            Piroxicam                                Meloxicam
 Class 25. The propionates are a class of agents useful for treating pain, fever, and inflammation. Members of this
 class include ibuprofen, naproxen, fenoprofen, nabumetone and many related analogs. These compounds are
 weak acids and are sparingly soluble in water. They may be soluble in strong alkali and high pH. The methods of
 the present invention solublize these agents without the need for strong alkali or high pH
                                               CO 2 H       H3CO                   CO2 H
                                                          H3 COOO'
                                  ibuprofen                          Naproxen
                                                                                      0
                                     O          CO2H
                                                          H3CO
                                  Fenoprofen                         Nabumtone
  Class 26. Multi-ring anti-inflammatory agents such as indomethacin, sulindac and all of their analogs are
  sparingly soluble in water without the addition of strong alkali or high pH. Using the methods of the present
  invention, these agents can be solubilized without the use of alkali or high pH.
                                                                                        CO 2 H
                                         CO 2H                         F
                     H3CO                                                           \         uina
                                             Indomethacin                                   Sulindac
                                     N
  Class 27. The indole based antiemetics which include ondansetron, dolasetron, granisetron, and all their related
  analogs are 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. These agents tend to be sparingly soluble in water. They and their
  related analogs can be solubilized by application of the methods of the present invention.
                              0                                                 0
                                                                 R4                 R2
                       QN                                           QN            R3
                        Ondansetron                              Generic structure
                                                                 R1-4 are substituents
                                                                 found in this class of agents
   Class 28. The azole antifungals are an important therapeutic class of agents including clotrimazole, miconazole,
   sulconazole, ketoconazole and all of their related anaologs. These agents tend to be sparingly soluble in water.
   They can be solubilized by application of the methods of the present invention.
                                                            19

                          0                                                             CI        c
             CI              N           Cl    C                          C
                      Miconazole                       Sulconazole                   Clotrimazole
Class 29. The benzimidazoles omeprazole, lasoprazole, and of the related analogs have utility as proton pump
inhibitors. These agents are sparingly soluble in water but can be solubilized by application of the methods of the
present invention.
                          N~     s3O                                            H\                       C
        H3CO                      O              OCH 3                          N     0           OCH 2 CF3
                      Omeprazole                                             Lansoprazole
Class 30. Compounds with various aromatic rings lacking sites for solubilization with strong acids or strong
alkali can be solubilized by application of the methods of the present invention. Examples of such agents that can
be solubilized are:
                 NH2                                              O                                      Br
                                                ,N               N       N0                            r OH
                   a DO2N                            S22
                                                           a  HN
                                                                         H                           Br
              Tacrine                    Zonisamide              Allopurinal           Benzbromozone
           Alzheimer's                      Siezures                Gout                     Gout
 Class 31. Compounds of the quinolone class of antibacterials such as ciprofloxacin, moxifloxacin and ofloxacin
 are sparingly soluble in water. These compounds have heterocyclic side chains which bear a basic nitrogen,
 which can form salts with strong acids. The salts increase solubility but even the salts are sometimes less soluble
 than desired. The methods of the present invention will increase the water solubility of these compounds without
 the use of strong acids. For cases where there is no basic nitrogen or only weakly basic nitrogens, the methods of
 the present invention will still solublize these agents. One such example is WCK771. The generic structure
 describes some of the compounds where the methods would apply.
                                                             20

                          0    0                            0    0                                   0     0
                                                                                        F               I__
             F              )__F
                                   OH                                 OH                F
                  N       N                                                                  I               O
         HN N            N            H         N      H     N               HN'.       NN
     HN             O                 HN               H                                        H
               Ofloxacin                      Ciprofloxacin                          Moxifloxacin
                                     0       0                                      0     0
                         F                      OH                    R,                       OH
                         N            N                               R2            N
                                                                              R3 R4
             HO
                             WCK771                                  R,  = F or H
                                                                     R2  = Heterocyclic ring
                                                                     R3  = O-alkyl, H, alkyl
                                                                     R4  = cyclopropyl, aryl, ethyl, or
                                                                     R3  and R4 form a ring
Class 32. Certain of the compounds which act as local anesthetics such as benzocaine, mepivacaine, lidocaine
and related structures are sparingly soluble in water without the addition of strong acids or low pH. Application
of the methods of the present invention increase the solubility of such compounds without the use of strong acids
or low pH.
                            0                        -     H     N-                          H
           H2N
                                                           N
                                                                                                     N
                                                             0                                 0
                  Benzocain                          Mepivacaine                       Lidocaine
Class 33. Capsaicin and its related compounds are useful for treatment of pain or injury. Capsaicin is sparingly
soluble in cold water. Application of the methods of the present invention increases the solubility of capsaicin
and related compounds.
                                  HO
                                                      H
                               H 3CO       .-         N
                                                         0
                                                 Capsaicin
Class 34. The aryl acetic acids such as tolmetin, ketorolac, diclofenac and their related structures are useful as
anti-inflammatory agents and for treatment of pain. They are sparingly soluble in water. At higher pH or with
treatment with base the solubility is improved. The methods of the present invention increase the solubility of
these agents and their analogs in water without the use of base or elevated pH.
                                                                                      0
                                                                                   HO           H   CI
                                       /'                                                       Nb
                                          OH                                 OH
                                                00                                             C1
                      Tolmetin                             Ketorolac                    Diclofenac
                                                            21

Class 35. Several anti-inflammatory and pain agents belong to a broad class of diphenyl heterocycles such as
rofecoxib, celecoxib,sulfinpyrazone, phenylbutazone and related compounds. These compounds are sparingly
soluble in water. Application of the methods of the present invention increase the solubility of these and related
compounds in water.
                                                O O
                                            H2N'
                                   0
                                                            N-N                      0    N
                                      0                          CF3                         N
                                      N                'S.N
                            O                                                 0
                           Rofecoxib                 Celecoxib                  Sulfinpyrazone
Class 36. The statins are a well known class of agents which are useful to treat hyperlipidemia and related
ailments. This class of compounds includes lovastatin, atorvastatin, cerivastatin and all related structures. These
compounds are sparingly soluble in water and even several of the acid salts are not freely soluble. Application of
the methods of the present invention increases the solubility in water for these and the compounds in this class.
                                                                                     F
             HO          0              OHOOH                                                    OH
                                     HN                         CO2H                                  CO2H
             Or 9     0               N
                                      H'       NCH3
            H         CH,                                                            N
    H3C'                                          F
         Lovastatin                     Atorvastatin                            Cerivastatin
 Class 37. Fibrates such as fenofibrate are poorly soluble compounds. Application of the methods of the present
 invention increase the solubility of these compounds in water.
               Below are chemical structures and chemical/physical properties of some other poorly soluble planar
    ring structured organic compounds:
                                                             22

                      TABLE I - PROPERTIES OF SOME PLANAR ACTIVE AGENT
  MEFENAMIC ACID                  Pain Relief/NSAID      61-68-7               241             230
  DICLOFENAC SODIUM               Pain Relief/NSAID      15307-86-5            318             283
  ")DICLOFENAC ACID               Pain Relief/NSAID      15307-79-6            296           -   177
  Note:  fl Synthesized from Sodium Diclofenac - See Diclofenac Section for details
         (2) J Pharmaceut Sci, 6(3): 352-359, 2003
Polyphenols including Flavonoids
          The chemical structures of some commonly occurring plant planar ring structured flavonoids are listed
  below.
                                                    23

          TABLE II - CHEMICAL STRUCTURES OF SOME COMMONLY
                                     OCCURING PLANT FLAVONOIDS
                    StrUCI ire                         Represenrtati ye flavonol ds
                                                        RI=J-1. R2 OE-E: Apipcniii
                              --         1                  1 =*2~oH:Luicolin
                                         ~~~~~                  RZ~.R    =2~(H
                                                                            R 3 =.R3=
                                                                                   FE:N1yrc=tinpf        v
                                                         R. I   0H-0cs'is~:Ir
         IoFla vr         .
                                                   ?,    R I            DtLiciriri          CH:
                                        ILR                 I =R2=R31=<>f-1           Coal 1cocatechitt ri
                                          _    t_        Ri=O-1., R2=CT>CH3: Hcsrer-etin
                      C.' 0
         Ask      t)cv.ani Itir               Cut
                                                         RI=H,            R=:          yriif
                                                   L3R      I = RO H. R2H          C  vaxpinti cir
                                                         R]=fOCI'13. R2-QE-                  Potuniidiri
                                       C*4               R I=R2=6*C1-l3: Pwafvlaujiri
        Flavonoids include the flavones (e.g., apigenin, luteolin), flavonols (e.g., quercetin, myricetin),
flavonones (e.g., narigenin, hesperidin), flavonols (or catechins) (e.g., epicatechin, gallocatechin),
anthocyanidins (e.g., cyaniding, pelargonidin), and isoflavones (e.g., genistein, daidezin).
                                                        24

             Apigenin is a member of the flavone structural class and is chemically known as 4', 5, 7,
   trihydroxyflavone. Apigenin has the following structural formula:
                                                                                   H
                                          H                O
                                                   OH      0
           Luteolin is also a member of the flavone structural class and is chemically known as 3',4',5,7
tetrahydroxyflavone. Luteolin has the following structural formula):
                                                                       OH
                                                                               OH
                                         HO               O
                                                  OH      O
             Both apigenin and luteolin are practically insoluble (i.e., a solubility of less than 1 mg/ml) in water and
   nearly all solvents suitable for pharmaceutical, cosmetic, and food additive formulations.
             In one embodiment, the invention includes planar ring structured organic compounds with the proviso
   that the planar ring structured organic compound is not a polyphenol, flavonoid and/or ubiquinone Q10.
           The methods of this invention are applicable to poorly soluble flavonoids having a solubility in water
less than 1 mg/ml, and particularly less than 0.1 mg/ml.
                                                           25

II - Methods of Preparine Formulations of the Compounds of the Invention
             The subject invention includes multiple ways to formulate planar ring structured organic compounds
   allowing a wide variety of applications. Disclosed herein are methods for substantially increasing the solubility
   of relatively water insoluble as well as relatively oil insoluble compounds within heat stable solubilizing
   compounds to enhanced concentration levels (e. g. up to about 10 or 20 wt % at ambient temperatures). The
   solubilized compound can be added to acceptable topical, subcutaneous, oral, peritoneal, periodQntal, aerosol
   carriers to make formulations.
              The subject invention relates to methods for substantially increasing the solubility concentrations of
    poorly soluble planar ring structured organic compounds, such as a flavonoids, with heat stable non-toxic
    solubilizing compounds, such as nonionic surfactant compounds, including polysorbates, comprising the steps
    of:    .
              a) mixing a planar ring structured organic compound, such as a flavonoid, in a heat stable solubilizing
    compound to form a mixture,
              b) heating the mixture while stirring to a temperature where the planar ring structured organic
    compound particulates are solubilized and the resulting mixture (the "concentrate") forms a clear solution, and
              c) cooling the concentrate, and
               optionally adding a carrier.
               The mixture is heated to an elevated temperature of greater than for-example 100 degrees C, 120
     degrees C, 150 degrees C, or 170 degrees C. The temperature selected is that which allows the planar molecules
     to go into solution. The mixture is heated to a temperature not exceeding the boiling point or decomposition
     point of either the planar compound or the solubilizing compound. The heating step is advantageously done
     with only the planar compound and the solubilizing compound present. The carrier is advantageously not
     present during mixing or heating. In many embodiments, the molar ratio of planar molecule to solubilizing
     compound approaches 1:2. The ratio of planar molecule to solubilizing compound approaches        1 mole of planar
     compound to 2 moles of solubilizing compound, e.g. surfactant for certain combinations. Significantly more
     surfactant than I mole active agent to 2 moles of surfactant is required for some active agent/surfactant
     combinations, e.g. I mole active agent to 20 moles of surfactant.
                                                              26

                  TABLE III - Solubility of Various Flavonoids in Surfactants/Solvents
                                         via the Thermal Treatment Process
     COMPOUND       MW    MP Ut H20       PS8O   - Sol.  '"Jordl PEG400     Jordi   DPSI    DPSI   DPSI   Molar     Molar
                          0
                           C    Sol..     Sol. Temp. PS800         Sol.  PE0400     PS80  PEG400 PE0300   Ratio      Ratio
                               (mg/ml). Conc. -    (C) Result Conr.       Results   Sol.    Sol.   Sol.  PS80/API PEG400/API
                                        (mg/Ml)         (mg/m) (mg/mi)   (mg/mfl    Data    Data   Data (moieind)Imolw/ail
                                                                                  (mg/mi) (mg/m) (mg/m)
    APIGENIN        270   360   0.002    40 - 60 - 270    40,5             34,8    35-45 30.40    35-45    4.5       21.7
    LUTEOUN         286   330    0.30     > 80   >200             70-90    72,5                            3.0       11.1
    1RESVERATROL    226   255 0.1 - 0.3     80   >200    127.5   80-100                                    2.4
    QUERCETIN       302   315       t     >80    > 200     35     60-80                                    32
    HEPERIDEN       610   260   05 -3~        De >200             10; 00e 81                                         21.2
         For creation of a pharmaceutical composition, a nutraceutical, a dietary supplement, cosmeceutical, a
food supplement, or medical food, after step b) or c) is the step of adding the solubilized compound mixture to a
dermatological, oral, injectable, dermal patch, or aerosol carrier.
            In another embodiment is the step of adding after step b) or c) an alcohol such as ethyl alcohol to the
  concentrate to form a soluble compound solution with a reduced viscosity. Other advantageous materials to
  reduce the viscosity level of the solubilized compound mixture include: small-chain alcohols (such as isopropyl
  and benzyl alcohol), ethoxydiglycol (diethylene glycol monoethyl ether or Transcutol), propylene glycol,
  hexylene glycol, butylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, glycerin, water, saline, DMSO, isopropyl myristate,
  mineral oil, low viscosity surfactants, and dimethyl isosorbide.
            The method of the subject invention is useful in increasing the solubility of compounds that have poor
  solubility or that are currently solubilized in such a manner (e.g. as a salt) that precludes or makes difficult
  certain applications.
Apigenin/Polysorbate 80 formulations can be made as follows:
     e    Apigenin powder and viscous liquid polysorbate 80 are mixed in the ratio from about 5 to 10 wt % of
          apigenin to 95 to 90 wt % polysorbate 80. A small quantity (5-10 wt%) of D.I. water and optionally
          acetone and/or ethyl alcohol is optionally added to facilitate the blending of the mixture.
     e   This mixture is thoroughly stirred to form a thick paste-like blend.
                                                              27

                                                                                                   0
      "   The mixture is then slowly heated to relatively high temperatures (about 100 to -150 C) while stirring.
           The heating is accompanied by the boiling off of the water and also volatile constituents present in the
           Polysorbate 80.
      "   Upon the removal of the volatiles and heating to temperatures in excess of about 200 to 300 OC, a dark
           brown transparent liquid results such that all the solid apigenin is solubilized in the Polysorbate 80
           mixture.
      e   Upon cooling to ambient temperatures, a thick viscous brown liquid results. The higher the apigenin
           content - the darker the resulting color.
       *  Based on a 4.05 % concentration of apigenin in the viscous apigenin polysorbate 80 liquid, the content of
           apigenin is 40.5 mg/ml or 40, 500 ppm.
It was unanticipated that high temperature levels were necessary to cause the high solubility level of apigenin and
other relatively water insoluble flavonoids.
          The use of apigenin/polysorbate 80 in an alcohol solution can deliver apigenin and other relatively
insoluble flavonoids to the desired target location. The invention includes methods of combining heat stable
compounds with the proper balance of polarity characteristics such as surfactants, with other flavonoids to achieve
elevated concentration levels of the other flavonoids. Examples 2 and 3 show formulations of other flavonoids and
polysorbates.
III     Formulations and Compositions of Planar Ring Compounds
           The subject invention relates to compositions comprising a planar ring structured organic compound,
 such as a flavonoid, and a heat stable solubilizing compound such as a surfactant, wherein said composition is
 formed by mixing the planar compound and the solubilizing compound to an. elevated temperature (typically >
 100 0 C) where said planar compound is dissolved in said solubilizing compound. When the dissolved mixture is
 cooled to ambient temperatures, said dissolved planar compound remains dissolved even at concentrations
 exceeding the ambient temperature saturation concentration level. The concentration of the planar compound or
 active agent in the composition is greater than the ambient temperature and pressure saturation concentration of
 the active agent in said heat stable solubilizing compound, and said composition is not a supersaturated solution.
 The composition "concentrate' is stable for a time at least until a formulation is made from the concentrate.
              As used herein, "a heat stable solubilizing compound" is a compound that is stable at least up to the
    melting of the planar ring structured organic compound to be solubilized. Upon thermal treatment (heating), the
    heat stable solubilizing compound when mixed with a planar ring structured organic compound, such as a
    flavonoid, solubilizes the planar ring structured organic compound, and upon cooling to ambient temperatures,
                                                             28

  continues to solubilize the planar ring structured organic compound. The mixture is heated to a temperature not
  exceeding the boiling point or decomposition point of either the planar compound or the solubilizing
  compound. For pharmaceutical, nutraceutical food and cosmetic applications the heat stable solubilizing
  compounds must be non-toxic at the levels used.
            Advantageously, the planar ring structured organic compound solubilizing compound is capable of
  continuing to solubilize the planar ring structured organic compound at ambient temperatures for an extended
  period of time, e.g. I or 2 months, advantageously 1 or 2 years, but for at least as long as the time needed for the
  concentrate to be added to a carrier to make a formulation.
            As used herein, "supersaturated solution" is a solution that contains higher than a saturated
  concentration of a solute; a slight disturbance or seeding causes crystallization of excess solute.
            Heat stable solubilizing compounds that allow for enhanced solubility concentration levels of planar
  cyclic compounds employing the high temperature methods of this disclosure include sufactants .
 Surfactants
         Surfactants are are classified as follows (see Figure 1):
Surfactants according to the composition of their tail
The tail of surfactants can be:
     e   A hydrocarbon chain: aromatic hydrocarbons (arenes), alkanes (alkyl), alkenes, cycloalkanes, alkyne
         based;
     e   An alkyl ether chain:
               o Ethoxylated surfactants: polyethylene oxides are inserted to increase the hydrophilic character
                   of a surfactant;
               o Propoxylated surfactants: polypropylene oxides are inserted to increase the lipophilic character
                   of a surfactant;
     "   A fluorocarbon chain: fluorosurfactants;
     e   A siloxane chain: siloxane surfactants
A surfactant can have one or two tails, these are called double-chained.
Surfactants according to the composition of their head
Surfactant classification according to the composition of their head: nonionic, anionic, cationic, amphoteric.
A surfactant can be classified by the presence of formally charged groups in its head. A non-ionic surfactant has
no charge groups in its head. The head of an ionic surfactant carries a net charge. If the charge is negative, the
surfactant is more specifically called anionic; if the charge is positive, it is called cationic. If a surfactant contains
a head with two oppositely charged groups, it is termed zwitterionic.
                                                           29

Some commonly encountered surfactants of each type include:
       lonic
            o Anionic: based on permanent anions (sulfate, sulfonate, phosphate) or pH-dependent anions
              (carboxylate):
                   -   Sulfates:
                             - Alkyl sulfates: ammonium lauryl sulfate, sodium lauryl sulfate (SDS, sodium
                                 dodecyl sulfate, another name for the compound);
                             " Alkyl ether sulfates: sodium laureth sulfate, also known as sodium lauryl ether
                                 sulfate (SLES), sodium myreth sulfate;
                   -   Sulfonates:
                             " Docusates: dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate;
                             -   Sulfonate fluorosurfactants: perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS),
                                 perfluorobutanesulfonate;
                             - Alkyl benzene sulfonates;
                   " Phosphates:
                             - Alkyl aryl ether phosphate
                             " Alkyl ether phosphate
                   -   Carboxylates:
                            -    Alkyl carboxylates: Fatty acid salts (soaps): sodium stearate;
                            -    Sodium lauroyl sarcosinate;
                            " Carboxylate fluorosurfactants: perfluorononanoate, perfluorooctanoate (PFOA
                                 or PFO)
            o Cationic: based on:
                   -   pH-dependent primary, secondary or tertiary amines: primary amines become
                       positively charged at pH < 10, secondary amines become charged at pH < 4:
                             - Octenidine dihydrochloride;
                   -   Permanently charged quaternary ammonium cation:
                             - Alkyltrimethylammonium salts: cetyl trimethylammonium bromide (CTAB)
                                 a.k.a. hexadecyl trimethyl ammonium bromide, cetyl trimethylammonium
                                 chloride (CTAC);
                             = Cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC);
                            " Polyethoxylated tallow amine (POEA);
                            " Benzalkonium chloride (BAC);
                            " Benzethonium chloride (BZT);
                            -    5-Bromo-5-nitro- 1,3-dioxane;
                            -    Dimethyldioctadecylammonium chloride
                            " Dioctadecyldimethylammonium bromide (DODAB)
            o Zwitterionic (amphoteric): based on primary, secondary or tertiary amines or quaternary
              ammonium cation with:
                  -    Sulfonates:
                            " CHAPS (3-[(3-Cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate);
                            -    Sultaines: cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine;
                  a    Carboxylates:
                            " Amino acids
                            - Imino acids
                            " Betaines: cocamidopropyl betaine;
                  -    Phosphates: lecithin
                                                      30

     e   Nonionic
             o Fatty alcohols:
                       " Cetyl alcohol,
                       -    Stearyl alcohol,
                            Cetostearyl alcohol (consisting predominantly of cetyl and stearyl alcohols),
                       * Oleyl alcohol;
              o 'Polyoxyethylene glycol alkyl ethers (Brij): CH 3-(CH 2). .-16 (O-C 2 H4) 1 _25-OH:
                       " Octaethylene glycol monododecyl ether,
                       " Pentaethylene glycol monododecyl ether;
              o Polyoxypropylene glycol alkyl ethers: CH 3-(CH 2 )1 0-s                   5 -OH;
                                                                        1 -(O-C 3 H6 )1 . 2
              o Glucoside alkyl ethers: CH 3 -(CH 2) 1 -16-(O-Glucoside) 1 3 -OH:
                       -    Decyl glucoside,
                       " Lauryl glucoside,
                       " Octyl glucoside;
              o Polyoxyethylene glycol octylphenol ethers: CgH 7 -(C 6H4)-(O-C2H4 ) 25-OH:
                        a Triton X-100;
              o Polyoxyethylene glycol alkylphenol ethers: C9 Hi 9-(C 6 H4 )-(O-C2H 4 )- 25 -OH:
                        v   Nonoxynol-9;
              o Glycerol alkyl esters:
                        a Glyceryl laurate
              o Polyoxyethylene glycol sorbitan alkyl esters: Polysorbates;
              o Sorbitan alkyl esters: Spans;
              o Cocamide MEA, cocamide DEA;
              o Dodecyldimethylamine oxide;
              o Block copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol: Poloxamers
Surfactants according to the composition of their counter-ion
In the case of ionic surfactants, the counter-ion can be:
       "  Monoatomic / Inorganic:
               o Cations: metals : alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, transition metal;
               o Anions: halides: chloride (Cl~), bromide (Br-), iodide (I~);
       "  Polyatomic / Organic:
               o Cations: ammonium, pyridinium, triethanolamine (TEA)
               o Anions: tosyls, trifluoromethanesulfonates, methylsulfate
Advantageous surfactants are as follows:
                                          0    AMPHOTERIC SURFACTANTS
  ALKYL AMMONIUM SULFONIC ACID
  BETAINE
  AMPHOTERIC-2
  AMPHOTERIC-9
  DISODIUM COCOAMPHODIACETATE
  PHOSPHOLIPID
       "  USES / FUNCTIONS:                   Cleansers, Solubilizers, Emulsifiers
       e  ADMINISTRATION ROUTE: Topical, IV (Infusion)
                                                           31

                                   *    ANIONIC SURFACTANTS
ALKYL ARYL SODIUM SULFONATE
AMMONIUM LAURYL SULFATE
AMMONIUM NONOXYNOL-4 SULFATE
DISODIUM LAURETH SULFOSUCCINATE
DOCUSATE SODIUM/SODIUM BENZOATE
GLYCERYL STEARATE SE
LAURYL SULFATE
SODIUM CETOSTEARYL SULFATE
SODIUM DODECYLBENZENESULFONATE
SODIUM SULFOSUCCINATED UNDECYCLENIC
MONOALKYLOLAMIDE
TROLAMINE LAURYL SULFATE
    *                                USES / FUNCTIONS:                 Cleansers, Wetting agents,
        Solubilizers
    *                                ADMINISTRATION ROUTE:            Topical, Oral, Respiratory
        (inhalation), Sublingual
                                 *     CATIONIC SURFACTANTS
ALUMINUM STEARATE
APRICOT KERNEL OIL PEG-6 ESTERS
BEHENETH-10
  "    USES / FUNCTIONS:          Emulsifiers, Solubilizers, Preservatives
  e    ADMINISTRATION ROUTE: Topical, Oral Ophthalmic, Nasal, Intramuscular, Auricular
                                 e    NONIONIC SURFACTANTS
BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE
CETEARETH-12, -15, -30
CETEARYL ALCOHOL/CETEARETH-20
CETETH-2. -10, -20
GLYCERYL STEARATE - LAURETH-23
GLYCERYL STEARATE/PEG STEARATE
GLYCERYL STEARATE/PEG-100 STEARATE
GLYCERYL STEARATE/PEG-40 STEARATE
LANOLIN NONIONIC DERIVATIVES
LANOLIN, ETHOXYLATED
LAURETH-2, -4, -23
LAUROYL POLYOXYLGLYCERIDES
OCTOXYNOL 9, -40
PEG VEGETABLE OIL
PEG-120 METHYL GLUCOSE DIOLEATE
PEG-150 DISTEARATE
PEG-22 METHYL ETHER/DODECYL GLYCOL
COPOLYMER
PEG-25 PROPYLENE GLYCOL STEARATE
PEG-75 LANOLIN
                                               32

PEG-8 CAPRYLIC/CAPRIC GLYCERIDES
PEG-8 LAURATE
PEGLICOL-5-OLEATE
PEGOXOL 7 STEARATE
POLOXAMER 124, -181, -182, -188, -237, -331, -338,
-407
POLYGLYCERYL-10 OLEATE
POLYGLYCERYL-10 TETRALINOLEATE
POLYGLYCERYL-3 OLEATE, -4 OLEATE
POLYOXYL 100 GLYCERYL STEARATE
POLYOXYL 12 GLYCERYL LAURATE
POLYOXYL 2 STEARATE
POLYOXYL 20 CETOSTEARYL ETHER
POLYOXYL 20 STEARATE
 POLYOXYL 35 CASTOR OIL
 POLYOXYL 4 LAURATE
 POLYOXYL 40 CASTOR OIL
 POLYOXYL 40 HYDROGENATED CASTOR OIL
 POLYOXYL 40 STEARATE, -50 STEARATE, -400
 STEARATE
 POLYOXYL 6 AND POLYOXYL 32
 PALMITOSTEARATE
 POLYOXYL 6 ISOSTEARATE
 POLYOXYL 60 CASTOR OIL
 POLYOXYL 60 HYDROGENATED CASTOR OIL
 POLYOXYL 8 STEARATE
  POLYOXYL GLYCERYL STEARATE
  POLYOXYL LANOLIN, PALMITATE, -STEARATE
  POLYSORBATE 20, -40, -60, -65, -80
  PPG-15 STEARYL ETHER
  PROPYLENE GLYCOL MONOSTEARATE
  SORBITAN MONOLAURATE,
  SORBITAN MONOPALMITATE
  SORBITAN MONOSTEARATE
  SORBITAN TRIOLEATE
  STEARAMIDOETHYL DIETHYLAMINE
  STEARETH-2,-10, -20, -21, -40, -100
  SUCROSE PALMITATE
  SUCROSE STEARATE
  WAX, EMULSIFYING
      *    ADMINISTRATION ROUTE Topical, Oral, Intramuscular, Intralesional, Auricular (OTIC),
           Ophthalmic, Transdermal, Subcutaneous, IV (Infusion), Nasal, Periodontal, Vaginal
      *    USES / FUNCTIONS          Emulsifiers, Solubilizers, Wetting agents, Gelling agents
           Silicone-Based Surfactants
           Also known as organosilicones, these are increasing in popularity because of their superior spreading
 ability. This class contains a polysiloxane chain: Some of these are a blend of non-ionic surfactants (NIS) and
 silicone while others are entirely silicone.
                                                           33

           Non-ionic Surfactants
           Fatty acid esters of sorbitan (generally referred to as spans) and their ethoxylated derivatives (generally
referred to as polysorbates) are perhaps the most commonly used nonionics. They can be used alone or in
combination (e.g. polysorbate 80 and span 80) to form mixed micelles. The sorbitan esters are insoluble in water,
but soluble in most organic solvents (low Hydrophile-Lipophile Balance (HLB) number surfactants). The
ethoxylated products are generally soluble in water and have relatively high HLB numbers. These nonionic
surfactants can be used alone or in a suitable combination to form mixed micelles of the desired HLB. One of the
 main advantages of the sorbitan esters and their ethoxylated derivatives is their approval as food additives. They
 are also used in cosmetics and pharmaceutical preparations.
           Nonionic surfactant compounds that are useful for enhanced solubility concentration levels of flavonoids
 having solubility in water less than 1mg/ml in water (employing the thermal treatment methods of this invention)
 include: ethoxylated aliphatic alcohols; polyoxyethylene surfactants; carboxylic esters; polyethylene glycol esters;
 anhydrosorbitol ester and its ethoxylated derivatives; glycol esters of fatty acids; and fatty amine ethoxylates.
            The most common nonionic surfactants are those based on ethylene oxide, referred to as ethoxylated
 surfactants. Several classes can be distinguished: alcohol ethoxylates, alkyl phenol ethoxylates, fatty acid
 ethoxylates, monoalkaolamide ethoxylates, sorbitan ester and their ethoxylated derivates, ethoxylates, fatty amine
 ethoxylates, and ethylene oxide-propylene oxide copolymers (sometimes referred to as polymeric surfactants).
  Another important class of nonionics is the multihydroxy products such as glycol esters, glycerol (and
  polyglycerol) esters, glucosides (and polyglucosides) and sucrose esters. Amine oxides and sulphinyl surfactants
  represent nonionics with a small head group. (M. J. Schick (ed.): Nonionic Surfactants: Physical Chemistry,
  Marcel Dekker, New York, 1987)
               HLB is an empirical expression for the relationship of the hydrophilic ("water-loving") and
     hydrophobic ("water-hating") groups of a surfactant. The higher the HLB value, the more water-soluble is the
     surfactant. The most common emulsion type, oil-in-water (o/w), often requires higher HLB surfactants
     preferably 12-16 while water-in-oil emulsions (w/o) require low HLB surfactants - preferable 7 - 11.
     Surfactants with an HLB value < 10 are oil-soluble while those > 10 are water-soluble.
               Span 20 is very suitable for water-in-oil topical.formulations while Polysorbate 80 is very appropriate
     for solubilizing compounds in oil-in-water topical formulations. Surfactants with high HLB values like
     Polysorbate 80 are also applicable for making "concentrates" intended for use in the preparation of hydrophilic
     aqueous-based formulations and incorporation into to the aqueous phase of an emulsion. Whereas, surfactants
     with low HLB values like Span 20 are also applicable for making "concentrates" intended for use in the
     preparation of lipophilic nonaqueous-based formulations and incorporation into to the non-aqueous or oil phase
                                                               34

   of an emulsion.
Polysorbate Surfactants
          Polysorbates (commercially also known as Tweens) are nonionic surfactants and emulsifiers derived
from polyethoxylated sorbitan and fatty acids. They are often used in foods and in cosmetics to solubilize
essential oils into water-based products. The polysorbates are viscous, water-soluble pale yellow liquids.
Polysorbates also help to form emulsions by reducing the surface tension of the substances to be emulsified.
Polysorbates have been recognized for their ability to help ingredients to dissolve in a solvent in which they
would not normally dissolve. Polysorbates function to disperse oil in water as opposed to water in oil.
           Polysorbates are produced by reacting the polyol, sorbitol, with ethylene oxide. The polyoxyethylenated
sorbitan is then reacted with fatty acids obtained from vegetable fats and oils such as stearic acid, lauric acid, and
oleic acid. Surfactants that are esters of plain (non-PEG-ylated) sorbitan with fatty acids are usually referred to by
the name Span.
             The polysorbates are composed of fatty acid esters of polyoxyethylene sorbitan, and their structures are
typically presented as the chemically homogenous polysorbates shown in below. While the number of repeat
ethylene oxide subunits varies at each position, their total number (w + x + y + z) is constant for each polysorbate
(i.e., 20,40 60, 80).
                                        HO(CH 2CH,07l    (OCHlCK2 )OH
                                                                (OCH CHYOR
 Polysorbates are a class of emulsifiers used in some pharmaceuticals and food preparation. They are often used in
 cosmetics to solubilize essential oils into water-based products. Polysorbates are oily liquids derived from PEG
 ylated sorbitan (a derivative of sorbitol) esterified with fatty acids. Surfactants that are esters of plain (non-PEG
 ylated) sorbitan with fatty acids are usually referred to by the name Span.
       "   Polvsorbate 20 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monolaurate)
       "   Polysorbate 40 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monopalmitate)
       *   Polvsorbate 60 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monostearate)
       "   Polvsorbate 80 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate)
 The number 20 following the polyoxyethylene part refers to the total number of oxyethylene -(CH 2CH 2 O)- groups
 found in the molecule. The number following the polysorbate part is related to the type of fatty acid associated
                                                             35

 with the polyoxyethylene sorbitan part of the molecule. Monolaurate is indicated by 20, monopalmitate is
 indicated by 60, and monooleate by 80. The same numbering is followed in their Span equivalents (Span 20, Span
 40, Span 60 and Span 80).
           The invention includes methods for increasing the solubility concentrations of poorly soluble
 compounds with polysorbates. As previously noted, many flavonoids and specifically apigenin are poorly soluble
 in aqueous solutions thus severely limiting their bioavailability for topical, pharmaceutical and nutraceutical
applications.
           The subject invention includes a method for increasing the aqueous phase solubility levels of
polyphenols by utilizing surfactant compounds, in particular Polysorbates 80, 60, 40 and 20. It should be noted
that in this example polysorbates 20, 40 and 60 represent a homologous series of polysorbates with varying
saturated fatty acids. The number of carbons in the fatty acid chain increases from 12 (polysorbate 20) to 18
(Polysorbate 60). Polysorbate 80 represents an unsaturated fatty acid with 18 carbon chain length (Oleate). These
examples are not all inclusive and one trained in the art should recognize the usefulness of these types of nonionic
surfactants with any other fatty acid and also other nonionic surfactants of other classes such as polyoxyethylene
alkyl ethers of fatty acids.
           PEG
           Poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), otherwise known as poly(oxyethylene) or poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO), is a
synthetic polyether that is readily available in a range of molecular weights (MW). Materials with MW <100,000
are usually called PEGs, while higher molecular weight polymers are classified as PEOs. These polymers are
amphiphilic and soluble in water as well as in many organic solvents. Low molecular weight (MW <1,000) PEGs
are viscous and colorless liquids, while higher molecular weight PEGs are waxy, white solids with melting points
proportional to their molecular weights to an upper limit of about 67 *C. PEG or PEO has the
                                                                                                  following structure,
                                          Hf           -,          O' H
                                                      L         _n
                                      HoG-cxt-cH2-O-cH2-1cH2-on
          The numbers that are often included in the names of PEGs indicate their average molecular weights, e.g.,
a PEG with n=9 would have an average molecular weight of approximately 400 daltons and would be labeled
PEG 400.
          Anionic and Cationic Surfactants
          It should also be noted that either anionic surfactants such as docussate sodium or sodium lauryl sulfate
or cationic surfactants such as cerrimide or benzethonium chloride can also be used either alone or in combination
                                                                36

with nonionic surfactants in the formulations of the invention. Significant aqueous phase enhancements exceeding
more than two orders of magnitude have been achieved for several relatively water insoluble polyphenols.
          The novel formulations with high planar compound concentrations can be utilized in oral, inhalation,
topical, peritoneal, periodontal and suppository formulations. They are useful in pharmaceutical, cosmeceutical
and nutraceutical applications (see below).
          As used herein, the term "pharmaceutical composition" or "pharmaceutical formulation" shall mean a
composition wherein the components of the composition or formulation are of pharmaceutical grade. The
compositions or formulations can conveniently be presented in unit dosage form, and can be prepared by methods
known in the art of pharmacy. The formulations can be for immediate, or slow or controlled release of the
diffusion enhancing compound. The advantages of a sustained release system (also known as time release,
controlled release, etc.) are that dosing frequency can decrease and the systemic drug concentrations are steadier
 for a longer duration as compared to other formulations of the same drug. Appropriate dosages of the
 compositions of the invention will depend on the mode of administration, metabolism of the given compound, and
 the severity of the condition being treated.
           The subject invention includes multiple ways to formulate planar compounds such as flavonoids,
 allowing a wide variety of applications. The compounds, compositions and formulations of the invention are
 useful in the prevention of and the treatment of the disorders and diseases discussed below. As used herein, a
 "therapeutically effective amount" is the dose necessary to have the desired effect. For example in the case of
 plaque psoriasis, a therapeutically effective amount is that amount which reduces the sizes or severity of the
 patches or plaques. A "prophylactic amount" is that dose which prevents or reduces the likelihood of a disorder or
  disease occurring.
           Table IV lists a variety of dosage types and forms that can serve as a means for delivering the subject
     formulations.
                                       TABLE IV- DOSAGE TYPES & FORMS
                          TYPE                                          FORMS
                ORAL                         Capsule, Thin film, Liquid Solutions
                 INHALATION                  Aerosol, Inhaler, Nebulizer, Smoking, Vaporizer
                 PERIDONTAL                  Liquid Solution, Paste, Spray
                 PARENTERAL                  Intradermal, Intramuscular, Intraosseous, Intraperitoneal,
                 INJECTION                   Intravenous, Subcutaneous
                                             Cream, Gel, Liniment or Balm, Lotion, Ointment, Solution,
                                              Spray, Foam, Ear drops, Eye drops, Skin patch (transdermal)
                 SUPPOSITORY                  Rectal (e.g., enema), Vaginal (e.g., douche, pessary, etc.)
                                                              37

 A.   Topical Administration
           Topical administration of solubilized compounds is typically done in the form of a patch, lotion, cream,
 gel, solution, spray, liquids and serums, foam or ointment. The methods described above for increasing the
 solubility levels of flavonoids or other poorly soluble planar compounds in surfactant enable the formulation of
 lotion, cream, gel, solution, spray, foam or ointment topical products wherein the planar compound is in solution;
 a physical state of the relatively insoluble planar compound not achievable without the use of these methods.
           Transdermal Delivery
           The methods described for increasing the solubility levels of planar compounds within surfactants enable
 the transdermal delivery into the systemic circulation via permeation at a controlled rate. The subject formulations
 offer a noninvasive route of drug administration by addressing issues related to the inherently low permeability of
 skin. The skin is a good barrier to drug penetration. Incorporation of penetration enhancers facilitates the
 absorption of drugs by altering the barrier property of the stratum corneum. Several nonionic surfactants such as
 polysorbate 80 in topical, oral, and peritoneal applications are considered to be pharmacologically inert, nontoxic,
 nonirritating, nonallergic, odorless, compatible with most drug and excipients, and have good solvent properties.
           Penetration Enhancers
           Different classes of penetration enhancers including alcohols and polyols (ethanol, glcerol, propylene
glycol), surfactants (Tween, Span), fatty acids (Oleic acid), amines and amides (Azone, N -methylpyrrolidone),
terpenes (limonene) sulfoxides (dimethylsulfoxide-DMSO), esters (isopropyl myristate) have been developed over
the past two decades (French E, Potton C, Walters K. Pharmaceuticalskin penetration enhancement.In: Walters
K, Hadgraft J, editors. New York: Marcel Dekker; 1993. p. 113-44).
           Microemulsions
          Another formulation approach aiming to enhance skin penetration is the preparation of microemulsions.
Microemulsions consist of water, oil, and surfactant that yield a transparent thermodynamically stable liquid.
Properties of microemulsions include optical transparency, thermodynamic stability, and solubility of both
hydrophobic and hydrophilic components. Microemulsions are clear, stable, isotropic liquid mixtures of oil, water
and surfactant, frequently in combination with a cosurfactant. The aqueous phase may contain salt(s) and/or other
ingredients, and the "oil" may actually be a complex mixture of different hydrocarbons and olefins. In contrast to
                                                           38

 ordinary emulsions, microemulsions form upon simple mixing of the components and do not require the high
 shear conditions generally used in the formation of ordinary emulsions. The two basic types of microemulsions
 are direct (oil dispersed in water, o/w) and reversed (water dispersed in oil, w/o).
           Penetration enhancement from microemulsions can be due to an increase in drug concentration which
 provides a large concentration gradient from the vehicle to the skin. The nonionic surfactants solvents containing
 the enhanced flavonoid concentrations (described herein) are well suited for the preparation of microemulsions for
 transdermal, oral and peritoneal applications.
            In one embodiment, a microemulsion contains apigenin is dissolved in polysorbate 80 together with
 water and ethyl alcohol as a cosurfactant and an oil phase of isoproyl myristate (IPM). This embodiment has
 topical applications, due to skin penetration properties, as well as oral, injection and nasal spray applications.
           The formulations disclosed in this invention allow enhanced transdermal drug delivery methodologies
 for flavonoids. Of particulate note are the disclosed formulations of relatively water insoluble flavonoids,
 including apigenin, solubilized in nonionic surfactants mixtures. In vitro skin penetration testing with human and
 mouse skins demonstrated unexpectedly high apigenin accumulation within the epidermal and dermal layers
 resulting from the application of the disclosed nonionic surfactant mixtures. See Example 15.
           Transdermal Patches
           Useful for transdermal active agent delivery of poorly soluble planar compounds, is the use of
 transdermal patches containing the solubilized compound within the solubilizing agent such as a surfactant,
 diluted with an alcohol such as the relatively volatile ethyl alcohol. The outer nonporous barrier of the patch when
applied to the skin serves to reduce the evaporation of the relatively volatile alcohol thereby allowing for the
increased penetration and delivery of the active agent. Other solvent diluents used in cosmetic and foods
applications such as alcohols (i.e., ethyl alcohol,glycols, ethoxydiglycol etc.), esters (dimethyl isosorbide etc.)
serve to reduced the viscosities of relatively viscous nonionic surfactant thereby increasing the rate and depth of
skin penetration when applied to the skin's surface or contained within transdermal patches. Particularly, useful
for dermal patch and transdermal patch, are the use of microemulsion formulations of active agents. The
formulations consist of oil-in-water and water-in-oil type microemulsions.
Transdermal patches can be classified into two types of delivery systems - reservoir based and matrix based.
Compositions for both are similar except that semipermeable membranes are used to control the diffusion from
the reservoir system. Examples of membranes used include polypropylene, low density polyethylene, ethylene
vinyl acetate co-polymer etc. In matrix based formulations drugs can be dispersed/solubilized in the adhesives.
Two commonly used adhesive classes include acrylate and silicone based materials. Examples of pressure
sensitive acrylate adhesives include, but are not limited to, the DURO-TAK@ series (HenkelUSA). Examples of
pressure sensitive silicone adhesives include, but are not limited to, the Bio-PSA@ series (Dow Corning, USA).
                                                           39

Additional information relating to-some specific acrylate and silicone based pressure sensitive adhesives are
summarized in Table V.
              TABLE V - A SUMMARY OF ACRYATE & SILICONE BASED
                                  PRESSURE SENSITIVE ADHESIVES
     ADHESIVE                         SOLVENT            POLYMER                     NOTES
      DESCRIPTION                     SYSTEM
      DURO-TAK@ 87-900A               Ethyl acetate      AcryLe non-euring           Reactive or
                                                                                     segasitive APF's
      DURO-TAK@ (3)87-                Ethyl. acetate     Acryl*ate-                  Long    term
      2516                            Ethanol                         ewcar           wein
                                                         Curing
                                                         Acryleate-                  Long term
      DURO-TAK@ 87-4287               Ethyl acetate      vinylacetate; non-               er
                                                         curing                       %var
      BIO-PSA 7-4202 Silicone                            Tr      d
      adbesiv           e             Ethyl acetate      silaimal flndblocked
      BIO-PSA 7-4302 Silc                                PDMS                        cmpatible
      adhesive
          Solvents and penetration enhancers known to those skilled in the art can also be included in the
 compositions. Potential, solvents/enhancers can include but are not limited to fatty acids (oleic acid), esters
 (isopropyl myristate) , alcohols (ethyl and isopropyl ) and glycols (propylene glycol, hexylene glycol). Other
 components can include antioxidants (e.g. BHT and BHA) or chelating agents (e.g. citric acid).
 In Example 15, the formulations of the subject invention delivered significant apigenin concentrations to both the
 epidermal and dermal skin layers.
 B.    Oral Administration
           Formulations of this invention can also be administered orally. For oral administration, compositions
  disclosed herein can be in the form of, for example, liquid gel capsules or solutions. For oral administration, the
  compositions disclosed can be in any orally acceptable dosage form including, but not limited to emulsions,
  microemulsions, and aqueous solutions, and liquid gel capsules .
                                                             40

           When the compounds are prepared for oral administration, they are generally combined with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient to form a pharmaceutical formulation, or unit dosage
form. For oral administration, compounds can be present as a solution, a suspension, an emulsion or in a natural
or synthetic polymer or resin for ingestion of the active ingredients from a chewing gum.
            Orally administered compounds can also be formulated for sustained release, e. g., flavonoids can be
coated, micro-encapsulated, or otherwise placed within a sustained delivery device. The total active ingredients in
such formulations comprise from 0.01 to 10% by weight of the formulation.
            Pharmaceutical formulations can be prepared by procedures known in the art using well-known and
 readily available ingredients. For example, the flavonoids can be formulated with common excipients, diluents, or
 carriers, and formed into dosage forms such as capsules, solutions, suspensions, aerosols and the like. All of these
 dosage forms can be for immediate release, sustained release or enteric coated. These can be either for peroral or
 sublingual or buccal delivery. Examples of excipients, diluents, and carriers that are suitable for such
 formulations include fillers and extenders such as starch, cellulose, sugars, mannitol, and silicic derivatives.
 Binding agents can also be included such as carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropyl
 methylcellulose and other cellulose derivatives, alginates, gelatin, and polyvinyl-pyrrolidone. Moisturizing agents
 can be included such as glycerol, disintegrating agents such as calcium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate.
 Agents for retarding dissolution can also be included such as paraffin. Resorption accelerators such as quaternary
 ammonium compounds can also be included. Surface active agents such as cetyl alcohol and glycerol
  monostearate can be included. Adsorptive carriers such as kaolin and bentonite can be added. Lubricants such as
  talc, calcium and magnesium stearate, and solid polyethyl glycols can also be included.
            The compositions of the invention can also contain thickening agents such as cellulose and/or cellulose
  derivatives. They can also contain gums such as xanthan, guar gum or gum arabic, or alternatively polyethylene
  glycols, bentones and the like.
             Soft gelatin capsules containing flavonoids can contain inactive ingredients such as gelatin,
  microcrystalline cellulose, glycerin, sodium lauryl sulfate, starch, talc, and titanium dioxide, and the like, as well
  as liquid vehicles such as polyethylene glycols (PEGs) and vegetable oil. Moreover, enteric-coated capsules
  containing flavonoids or other compounds are designed to resist disintegration in the stomach and dissolve in the
  more neutral to alkaline environment of the duodenum are typically coated with cellulose acetate derivatives.
             The planar compounds can also be formulated as elixirs or solutions for convenient oral administration.
  The pharmaceutical formulations of the flavonoids can also take the form of an aqueous or anhydrous solution or
  dispersion, or alternatively the form of an emulsion or suspension.
   C.   Parenteral Administration
                                                            41

            The formulations of this invention can also be administered parentally. For parenteral administration, the
 compositions disclosed herein can be in the form of injectable solutions or suspensions, such as saline solutions.
 The term "parenteral," as used herein includes intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular, intrasynovial,
 intrasternal, intralesional and intracranial injection or infusion techniques. Typical formulations include emulsions
 and microemulsions. Injectable formulations, including emulsions, frequently consist of mixtures of purified
 water for injection, organic cosolvents, surfactants, suspending agents, preservatives, antioxidants and pH
 adjusters. Examples of ingredients illustrating each category are as follows, but not limited to:
           Cosolvents
           Propylene glycol, ethyl alcohol, glycerin, polyethylene glycols, benzyl alcohol, vegetable oil, soybean
oil, safflower oil, cottonseed oil, corn oil, peanut oil, sunflower oil, arachis oil, castor oil, olive oil, ester of a
medium or long chain fatty acid such as a mono- di- or triglyceride, ethyl oleate, isopropyl myristate, polyoxyl
hydrogenated castor oil, phospholipids and combinations thereof.
           Surfactants
           Polyoxyethylene / polyoxypropylene block copolymers, phosphatides, and polysorbates are commonly
used as synthetic nonionic surfactants
           Suspending Agents
           Polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP), sodium carboxymethylcellulose and dextran
           Preservatives
           Disodium edetate, sodium benzoate, benzalkonium chloride, benzoic acid methylparaben and
propylparaben
           Antioxidants
           Ascorbic acid, butylated hydroxytoluene, butylated hydroxyanisole, sodium thiosulfate
           pH Adjusters
           Sodium hydroxide, tromethamine, sodium citrate, sodium phosphate dibasic and monobasic, sodium
acetate, citric acid, phosphoric acid, acetic acid and phosphoric acid.
D.    Inhalation Administration
          The formulations of this invention can also be administered by inhalation means. For inhalation
administration, the compositions disclosed herein can be in the form of aerosols which deliver the flavonoid
                                                             42

 ingredients as a suspension of fine liquid droplets in a ga's to the mouth or nasal passages. Vaporizer and
 inhalation devices facilitate in the delivery of the flavonoid ingredients.
             The compositions can be administered to the respiratory tract. The composition can be presented in
   unit dosage form in, for example, capsules or cartridges, or, e.g., gelatin or blister packs from which the
   composition may be administered with the aid of an inhalator, insufflator, or a metered-dose inhaler (MDI) or
   dry powder inhaler (DPI).
             The compounds can also be administered in an aqueous solution when administered in an aerosol or
   with a dropper. Thus, other aerosol pharmaceutical formulations can comprise, for example, a physiologically
   acceptable buffered saline solution containing between about 0.01 - 10% of the disclosed flavonoid ingredients.
   Liquid formulations may also contain preservatives such methyl and propyl paraben, benzalkoniurn chloride
   etc, buffers such as phosphate and citrate buffers, tonicity adjusters such as mannitol, sodium chloride etc and
   antioxidants such as ascorbic acid, sodium metabisulfite, sodium thiosulfate etc and colors such as D&C yellow
   i10, FD&C yellow # 6 etc.
             For administration to the upper (nasal) or lower respiratory tract by inhalation, the active agents are
   conveniently delivered from a nebulizer or a pressurized pack or other convenient means of delivering an
   aerosol spray. Pressurized packs can comprise a suitable propellant such as dichlorodifluoromethane,
   trichlorofluoromethane, dichlorotetrafluoroethane, carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a
   pressurized aerosol, the dosage unit can be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount.
   Products can also be delivered by use of nebulizers.
             For intra-nasal administration, the therapeutic agent can also be administered via nose drops, a liquid
   spray, such as via a plastic bottle atomizer or metered-dose inhaler. Typical of atomizers are the Mistometer
   (Wintrop) and the Medihaler (Riker).
   Carriers and Vehicles
          In addition to the active agents, the formulations comprise one or more vehicle such as a
"pharmaceutically acceptable" or cosmetically or "dermatologically acceptable" carrier/vehicle.
                                                                                                      A
"pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" does not substantially adversely affect the pharmacological
                                                                                                        activities of the
active agent, is not deleterious or unsuitably harmful to the recipient thereof and is non- toxic when administered
at dosages sufficient to deliver an effective amount of the active ingredient, and the carrier (diluent, excipient,
and/or salt etc.) is compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation. Likewise, a "dermatologically
acceptable carrier" has the same qualities.
                                                            43

           A dermatologically acceptable carrier typically includes ingredients that are chemically and physically
 compatible with the active ingredient(s), stable with an adequate shelf life, and that aid in delivery of the active
  ingredient(s) into the skin (e.g., to the epidermis and/or dermis) following topical administration. Optionally,
 the dermatological carrier contains ingredients that contribute to the ease of application and have pleasing
 aesthetic properties (color, scent, feel etc.).
           Formulation objectives with respect to the drug delivery profile depend on the intended use of a topical
 product. For sunscreens, antifungals, and keratolytic formulations, enhanced drug delivery and retention in the
 stratum corneum (the outer layer of skin) is desired. Conversely, topical formulations that are intended to
 modify the physiology of the skin require drug deposition in and often through the lower layers of the skin
 (viable epidermis and dermis).
           The carrier can act, for example, as a diluent, dispersant, and/or carrier for other materials present in
 the formulation (for example, so as to facilitate their distribution when the composition is applied to the skin).
 Some exemplary vehicles include: organic constituents (such as alcohols, oils, and the like), aqueous based
 solvents (e.g., those which can dissolve or disperse the active flavone ingredients, e.g., at concentrations that are
 suitable for use in the therapeutic treatment).
            More specifically, the carrier(s) can include ethanol,. isopropanol, benzyl alcohol, glycol (e.g.,
 polyethylene glycols, propylene glycol, ethoxydiglycol, and so forth), oils (such as grapeseed, jojoba, coconut,
 sesame, mineral etc.), glycerol, fatty acid esters, dimethyl isosorbide, as well as combinations comprising at
 least one of the foregoing carriers.
           The carrier, which can be present in the formulation in an amount of less than or equal to 99.99 wt%,
 for example, 80 wt% to 99.99 wt%, based upon a total weight of the formulation, can be in any of the various
 forms of the desired final formulation as discussed above.
           Carrier components in addition to water and oils can also include liquid emollients, solid emollients,
 solvents, humectants, thickeners, powders, fragrances, odor masking agents, colorants, dispersants, lubricants,
 silicates as well as combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing. Exemplary solvents include ethyl
 alcohol, isopropanol, ethoxydiglycol, and dimethyl isosorbide, and acetone, as the prevention and/or relief of
 dryness, and/or for the protection of the skin, such as stearyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, acetylated lanolin alcohols,
stearic acid, isobutyl palmitate, isocetyl stearate, cetyl palmitate, isopropyl stearate, butyl stearate, lanolin,
cocoa butter, shea butter, oil (e.g., olive oil, sunflower seed oil, avocado oil, mineral oil), petroleum jelly, and
myristate (e.g., butyl myristate, isopropyl myristate, myristyl myristate), as well as combinations comprising at
least one of the foregoing.
                                                          44

           In an embodiment of the invention, the compositions are formulated with ?n enteric coating to release the
active agent in the intestines.
 Additives
Hyaluronic Acid (HA)
            Within the dermal structure, HA functions as a space filling, structure stabilizing, and cell protective
molecule with remarkable malleable physical and superb biocompatibility properties. Additionally, HA
structures, which have a high level of visoelasticity, serve to preserve a high level of hydration with this skin. A
strong correlation exists between the water content in the skin and levels of HA within the dermal tissue. It is
well documented that there are significant alterations in HA physical and biological properties as skin ages
particularly in metabolism, content and deterioration in the mechanical properties of the skin. It is believed that
 the maintaining of a viable HA presence within the skin's intercellular structure contributes to the viability of a
 healthy skin physical appearance.
            In another aspect, it has been well documented that polysaccharide molecules such as HA do degrade as
 a consequence of enzymatic and oxidative (free radical) mechanisms. Consequently, it is desirable to develop
 topical formulations that serve to prevent the decomposition of polysaccharides such as HA. To this end,
 flavonoids such as flavones serve to meet this need via their well-documented anti-hyaludonidase and anti-oxidant
 properties - thereby serving to maintain the viability of HA desirable functions protecting against the mechanisms
 which contribute to its breakdown.
            Topically, HA has water storing properties, making it beneficial as a swelling agent and lubricant,
 enabling its incorporation into cosmetics leading to a perceptible and visible improvement of skin condition. In
  use, it forms a thin transparent visco elastic surface film that helps to preserve the characteristics of youthful and
  healthy skin: suppleness, elasticity and tone. Increased skin hydration may swell and open up the compact
  structure of the stratum corneum, leading to an increase in penetration of the active flavonoids ingredients of the
  topical formulations described herein.
             The formulation can further comprise additive(s) so long as the specific additive(s) do not adversely
  affect the active ingredient(s). Some possible additive(s) that can be used in the various embodiments of the
  formulation include:
             antioxidant(s) (e.g., tocopherol, tocopheryl acetate, butylated hydroxytoluene, sodium metabisulfite,
  sodium thiosulfate, and propyl gallate),
                                                              45

          surfactant(s) (e.g., that can reduce the interfacial tension between phases and/or improve stability of the
formulation, and/or that can act as emulsifiers, such as glyceryl stearate, stearyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, stearic acid
dimethicone, a silicone (siloxane) surfactant, polysorbates, sodium laureth),
            skin conditioning agent(s) such as silicone oils,
            preservative(s) (e.g., methylparaben, propylparaben, benzyl alcohol, benzalkonium chloride etc.),
            humectants(s) or emollients or moisturizers such as glycerol, polyethylene glycol, glycerin, sorbitol,
   mineral oil, isopropyl myristate, etc.,
            buffer(s) (such as phosphate buffers, citrate buffers, and acetate buffers, etc.) pH adjusters such as
   triethanolamine, potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide), hydrochloric acid and phosphoric acid etc.,
             gelling agents such as hydroxypropyl ethyl cellulose, hydroxyrthyl cellulose, polyacrylic acid
   polymers, and poloxamers, etc.
             vitamin(s) (e.g., A, B C, D, E, K, etc.),
             mineral(s), plant extract(s) (e.g., aloe vera, witch hazel, elderflower, cucumber, chamomile, etc.),
             anti-inflammatory agent(s),
             emollient(s),
             moisturizer(s),
             skin protectant(s),
             silicone(s),
             analgesic(s),
             skin penetration enhancer(s), such as propylene glycol, transcutol, isopropyl myristate,
             colorant(s) such as yellow no. 5,
             fragrance(s) (or perfume),
             wax(es) (e.g., beeswax, paraffin wax, etc.),
             propellant(s) (e.g., compressed air, hydrocarbons (such as propane, butane, isobutene, etc.),
             sunscreen ingredient(s) (e.g., inorganic and/or organic sunscreens, such as titanium oxides, zinc
    oxides, avobenzone, oxybenzone, homosalate, octocrylene octinoxate etc.), or
             a combination comprising at least two of the forgoing.
           For sunscreens, the formulation can contain 0.01 wt% to 20 wt% sunscreen ingredient(s), specifically,
 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt%, and more specifically, 0.5 wt% to 5 wt% based upon a total weight of the formulation.
 For skin products, those vehicles that are fat-soluble, i.e., those which can effectively penetrate skin layers and
 deliver the flavonoids to the lipid-rich layers of the skin. A formulation containing dispersed and/or solubilized
 flavonoids in an admixture colloidal form can be added to a vehicle together with the oxides of titanium and zinc
 such that the flavonoids will preferentially be absorbed within the user's skin while the phase containing the zinc
 and titanium oxides will not be absorbed but will form a protective UV film barrier external to the surface of the
 skin.
                                                              46

          The concentrate of the invention can be loaded into a formulation by adding it into an oil/water ("o/w")
and/or water/oil/water ("w/o/w") emulsion, which can comprise dispersant(s), emulsifiers, surfactants, and the
like.
          It is noted that, while the carrier can comprise a relatively simple solvent or dispersant (such as oils and
organic alcohols), it is generally preferred that the carrier comprise a composition more conducive to topical
application, and particularly one which will form a film or layer on the skin to which it is applied so as to localize
the application and provide some resistance to perspiration and/or one which aids in delivery to the skin (e.g., to
the skin's subsurface layers) and penetration of the active ingredients into the lipid layers of the skin. Many such
compositions take the form of lotions, creams, sprays and gels. Typical compositions include lotions containing
water and/or alcohols, emollients (such as hydrocarbon oils, hydrocarbon waxes, silicone oils, vegetable fats
and/or oils, animal fats and/or oils, marine fats and/or oils, glyceride derivatives, fatty acids, fatty acid esters,
alcohols (e.g., polyhydric alcohols, alcohol ethers), lanolin (including derivatives), esters (e.g., polyhydric esters,
wax esters), sterols, phospholipids, as well as combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing), and
 generally also emulsifiers (nonionic, cationic or anionic): These same general ingredients can be formulated into a
 cream rather than a lotion, or into gels, by utilization of different proportions of the ingredients and/or by
 inclusion of thickening agents such as gums or other forms of hydrophilic colloids.
           In one embodiment, the formulation comprises the planar compound in both the dissolved and dispersed
 (e.g., microparticulate) forms. The dissolved form(s) can penetrate the skin layers to become bioactive while the
 dispersed compounds can serve as a reservoir for maintaining a dissolved concentration level as the dissolved
 compounds are consumed so as to maintain sustained delivery.
           A formulation can be prepared using a lecithin-based oil-in-water cream with about 2.0 wt% apigenin
  and about 0.5 wt% ascorbic acid, with about 0.5 wt% tocotrienol acetate and about 0.25 wt% glycolic acid with
  the balance comprising the vehicle's components, based upon a total weight of the formulation.
           In another example, the formulation can be prepared using a lecithin-based oil in water cream, 3.0 wt%
  with lecithin, about 0.5 wt% ascorbic acid, about 0.5 wt% tocotrienol acetate, about 0.25 wt% glycolic acid, and
  about a total of 8 wt% of the oxides of zinc and titanium, with the balance comprising the vehicle's components,
  based upon a total weight of the formulation.
            Optionally, the composition can further comprise: (i) an additive selected from the group consisting of
  surfactants, vitamins, minerals, plant extracts, anti-inflammatory agents, concentrates of plant extracts, emollients,
  moisturizers, skin protectants, humectants, silicones, skin soothing ingredients, skin penetration enhancers,
  colorants, perfumes (fragrances), preservatives, pH adjusters, and a combination comprising at least one of the
  forgoing; and/or (ii) titanium oxide, zinc oxide, or a combination comprising at least one of the forgoing.
                                                              47

          Generally, the planar compound compositions can comprise greater than or equal to 0.01 weight percent
(wt%) planar compound, specifically, greater than or equal to 1 wt%, for example, 0.1 wt% to 10 or 20 wt%,
specifically, 0.5 wt% to 8 wt%, more specifically, 2 wt% to 5 wt%, based upon a total weight of the composition.
The formulation can comprise greater than or equal to 0.01 wt% (e.g., 0.01 wt% to 20 wt% planar compound,
specifically, 0.05 wt% to 15 wt%, more specifically, 0.1 wt% to 10 wt% planar compound, yet more specifically
0.5 wt% to 4 wt% planar compound, and even more specifically, I wt% to 2 wt% based upon a total weight of
the formulation.
          Ranges disclosed herein are inclusive and combinable (e.g., ranges of "up to 25 wt.%, or, more
specifically, 0.5 wt.% to 5 wt.%", is inclusive of the endpoints and all intermediate values of the ranges of "5
wt.% to 25 wt.%," etc.). "Combination" is inclusive of blends, mixtures, alloys, reaction products, and the like.
Furthermore, the terms "first," "second," and the like, herein do not denote any order, quantity, or importance, but
rather are used to distinguish one element from another, and the terms "a" and "an" herein do not denote a
limitation of quantity, but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item. The suffix "(s)" as
used herein is intended to include both the singular and the plural of the term that it modifies, thereby including
one or more of that term (e.g., the film(s) includes one or more films). Reference throughout the specification to
"one embodiment", "another embodiment", "an embodiment", and so forth, means that
                                                                                            a particular element (e.g.,
feature, structure, and/or characteristic) described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one
embodiment described herein, and may or may not be present in other embodiments. In addition, it is to be
understood that the described elements may be combined in any suitable manner in the various embodiments. As
used herein, the term "(meth)acrylate" encompasses both acrylate and methacrylate groups.
          Examples of formulations of the invention are set forth in Table VI.
                                                           48

      TABLE VI - EXAMPLES OF FORMULATIONS CONTAINING THE DISCLOSED
                               SOLUBILIZED ACTIVE AGENTS
 FORMULATION                  EXAMPLES OF FORMULATIONS CONTAINING THE DISCLOSED
        TYPES                                       SOLUBILIZED ACTIVE AGENTS
                    Capsules containing the poorly soluble active agents & other active ingredients may include
                    the following ingredients:
 CAPSULES            * 0.01 -10% of the disclosed active agents; and
                     - 90 - 99.9 % of inactive ingredients including oils, emulsifiers, solvents, saline solutions,
                         preservatives
                    An emulsion is a thermodynamically stable system consisting of at least two immiscible
                    liquid phases, one of which is dispersed in the other liquid phase. The system is stabilized
                    by the presence of an emulsifying agent. When the oil phase is dispersed throughout an
                    aqueous continuous phase, the system is referred to as an oil-in-water (oiw) emulsion.
                    When the oil phase serves as the continuous phase, the emulsion is referred to as water-in
Emulsions           oil (wio) emulsion. Both lotions and creams are emulsions. Creams are thicker than lotions.
(LOTIONS,           Gels consist of a solid three-dimensional network of a gelling agent that spans the volume of
CREAMS),            a liquid medium.
& GELs
                     The key components include:
                     * 0.01 -10% of the disclosed active agents and other active ingredients; and
                     * 90 - 99.9% of other ingredients such as emulsifiers (surfactants), humectants,
                         emollients, oils, fatty acids, solvents, stabilizing agents, gelling agents, preservatives,
                        vitamins, penetration enhancers, dyes, fragrances. etc, are commonly added ingredients
                     Ointments are homogeneous, viscous semi-solid preparations. They are formulated using
                     hydrophobic, hydrophilic, or water-emulsifying bases to provide preparations that are
OINTMENTS            immiscible, miscible, or emulsifiable with skin secretions. The key components include:
                     * 0.01 -10% of the disclosed active agents & other active ingredients; and
                     * 90 - 99.9% including the ointment base consisting of parafiins, beeswax, vegetable oils,
                         fatty acids, stabilizers, emulsifiers, humectants, preservatives, fragrances, etc.
                     Dermal & Transdennal Patches include the following key ingredients contained within a
DERMAL &             porous matrix support:
TRANSDERMAL          * 0.01 - 10% of the disclosed active agents & other active ingredients; and
PATCHES              * 90 - 99.9% including penetrating agents, preservatives, stabilizers, gelling agents,
                        solvents such as short chain alcohols, pH adjusters, saline solutions, etc..
                     Injectables include the following key components:
INJECTABLES          * 0.01 -10% of the disclosed active agents & other active ingredients; and
                     * 90 - 99.9% including preservatives, stabilizers, solvents such as water and short chain
                        alcohols, buffers, pH adjusters, saline solutions, etc.
NASAL                Nasal sprays may be atomized into a fine aerosol mist to include the following ingredients:
Formulations         * 0.01 - 10% of the disclosed active agents & other active ingredients; and
fSolutions, Sprays,  * 90 - 99.9% including vegetable derived oils, saline solutions, solvents, stabilizers,
 ets and ointments)     surfactants, buffers, preservatives, pH adjusters, gelling agents and petrolatum etc.
                                                     49

            Advantageous Topical Compositions
            The following compositions are advantageous embodiments of the invention. In other embodiments,
  another flavonoid, e.g. luteolin, or combination of flavonoids, can be substituted for apigenin, and another
  surfacant can be substituted for polyorbate 80 to make the concentrate. In still further embodiments of the
  invention, other planar compounds of the invention, e.g. polyphenols, can be substituted for apigenin.
            An apigenin formulation using a dimethyl sulfoxide-water solution comprising I to 20 wt%
  (advantageously about 10 wt%) apigenin/polysorbate-80 concentrate, 0 to 99.9 wt% (advantageously about 45
  wt%) dimethyl sulfoxide, and the balance comprising water, based upon a total weight of the formulation.
             An apigenin gel formulation using a dimethyl sulfoxide-water solution comprising I to 20 wt%
  (advantageously about 10 wt%) apigenin/polysorbate-80 concentrate, 0 to 60 wt% (advantageously about 45
  wt%) dimethyl sulfoxide, 2 to 4 wt% (advantageously about 3 wt%) hydroxypropyl cellulose (quantity
  sufficient to achieve desired viscosity), and the balance comprising water, based upon a total weight of the
  formulation.
          An apigenin solution formulation using an ethanol-water solution comprising 1 to 20 wt%
(advantageously about 10 wt%) apigenin/polysorbate-80 concentrate, 0 to 80 wt% (advantageously about 66 wt%)
ethanol, 0 to 20 wt% (advantageously about 10 wt% propylene glycol), and the balance comprising water, based
upon a total weight of the formulation.
             An apigenin gel formulation using an ethanol-water solution comprising I to 20 wt% (advantageously
   about 10 wt%) apigenin/polysorbate-80 concentrate, 0 to 80 wt% (advantageously about 66 wt%) ethanol, 0 to
   20 wt% (advantageously about 10 wt%) propylene glycol, gelled with either -0.5 to -2.5 wt% hydroxyethyl
   cellulose or -0.5 to -2.5 wt% sodium hyaluronate or -0.5 to -2 wt% carbopol (quantity sufficient to achieve
   desired viscosity), and the balance comprising water, based upon a total weight of the formulation.
             An apigenin emulsion formulation comprising     1 to 20 wt% (advantageously about 5 to 10 wt%)
   apigenin/polysorbate-80 concentrate, 0 to 20 wt% (advantageously about 10 wt%) ethoxydiglycol, 0 to 20 wt%
   (advantageously about12 wt%) myristyl lactate, 0.1 to 1.0 wt% (advantageously about 0.4 wt%) carbopol 980,
   0.1 to 1.0 wt% (preferably 0.3 wt%) Pemulen TRI, -0.17 wt% methylparaben, -0.03 wt% propylparaben, -0.1
   wt% EDTA, 0 to 15 wt% (advantageously about 10 wt%) cyclomethicone, 0 to 10 wt% (advantageously about
   2 wt%) oleyl alcohol, -0.1 wt% butylated hydroxytoluerie, and the balance comprising water (with the final pH
   adjusted to -6.5 using dilute HCI or a 10% sodium hydroxide solution), based upon a total weight of the
                                                          50

   formulation. Pemulen polymers are high molecular weight, crosslinked copolymers of acrylic acid and C10
   C30 alkyl acrylate. Carbopol 980 is a crosslinked polyacrylate polymer.
           Nutraceuticals/Dietary Supplements
           A solubilized compound, such as a polyphenol concentrate, or formulation of such concentrate, can be
used for many nutraceutical products such as isolated nutrients, fortified foods and dietary supplements. As used
herein, a nutraceutical is any nontoxic food extract supplement that has scientifically proven health benefits for
both the treatment and prevention of disease.
           Food/Medical Foods
           Medical foods are formulated to be consumed or administered internally under the supervision of a
physician. They are intended for the specific dietary management of a disease or condition for which distinctive
nutritional requirements, on the basis of recognized scientific principles, are established by medical evaluation.
Medical foods can be ingested through the mouth or through tube feeding. Medical foods are always designed to
meet certain nutritional requirements for people diagnosed with specific illnesses. A planar compound
concentrate, such as flavonoid concentrate, or a formulation thereof, can be used in medical foods. For example,
the addition of a polyphenol (e.g.flavonoid) concentrate to beverages (e.g. alcohol types) will serve as a means
for the oral delivery of poorly soluble but beneficial polyphenols. Also included in the invention are functional
beverages and functional shots, genetically engineered "designer" food, herbal products, and processed products
such as cereals, soups, and beverages which include a concentrate.
           Cosmetics/Cosmeceuticals
            The concentrates or formulations of the subject invention, e.g. including polyphenol concentrates, can
   be used in many products such as cosmetic and dermatological products, including foundations, sunscreen
   products, sunless skin tanning products, hair removal products, creams (e.g., moisturizing creams, burn creams,
   skin benefit creams, night creams, dermatological creams, etc.), serums, liquids, skin benefit lotions, softeners,
   gels, sprays, foams, soltions, soaps, shampoos, ointments, lipsticks, cleansers, toners, masks, hair products,
   finger nail products, as well as other cosmetic products or applications.
IV-Kits
             According to another aspect of this invention, kits for forming a formulation for delivery of a bioactive
  agent are provided. The kits of the invention comprise a first aliquot portion of a concentrate solution, and a
  second aliquot portion of a carrier. When mixed, the first and second aliquot portions form a composition for
  delivery of the bioactive agent contained therein. A preservative may be incorporated into one of the first and
  second aliquot portions. The carrier is typically a dermatological, oral, injectable, or aerosol carrier.
                                                          51

           The kits of the invention can advantageously be provided with a double syringe having first and second
 syringe barrels which respectively contain the first and second aliquot portions of the reaction mixture. A duel
 syringe set-up can be used in preparation of the formulations according to the present invention. For example a
 concentrate solution of a flavonoid, such as apigenin, can be contained within the barrel of one syringe, while a
 carrier can be contained within the barrel of the other syringe. The syringes are connected to one another so that
 the contents can be mixed by alternately transferring the mixture from one syringe barrel to another for about 30
 cycles. The concentrate solution is stable for at least one year and the carrier stable for at least that time, in some
 cases indefinitely. Maintenance of sterility, broad applicability, stability of the bioactive agent and ease of use are
 the attributes of such a double syringe system.
   V - Uses of the Compounds and Formulations of the Invention
   Flavonoids
           Flavonoids have multiple therapeutic applications since they are free radical scavengers, anti-oxidants,
superoxide anions, UV absorbers, vasodialators, anti-hyaluronidase (inhibits breakdown of hyaluronic acids by
inhibiting hyaluronidases), anti-collagenase (inhibits breakdown of collagen by inhibiting collagenases), anti
elastase (inhibits breakdown of elastin by inhibiting elastases), and scavaging lipid peroxide radicals. Flavonoid
compounds are also known to be effective in strengthening collagen structures. Further, flavonoids have anti
mutagenic, anti-angiogenic, anti-carcinogenic, anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and antiviral effects. The anti
inflammatory effects include inhibition of TNF-alpha, IL-beta, COX-2, protein kinase PKC, iNOS, and T helper
cells Th 1 and Th 17. Flavonoids, apigenin in particular, is a stimulator of p53. Researchers have found that
apigenin induces reversible, cell-cycle arrests at G1 and G2/M phase of the cell cycle.
           Flavonoids alone or in combination with other preventive and/or therapeutic effective drugs, are effective
in treating or preventing in mammals, including humans, the most common diseases such as cancer, autoimmune
disease, diabetes, ulcer, cardiovascular disease, atherosclerosis, and liver disease. The compounds also have
antithrombogenic activity.
             Skin Diseases
           This disclosure provides methods for making topical formulations containing flavonoids, such as
apigenin, at a pharmaceutically meaningful concentration in a dermatologically acceptable pH range. The
flavonoids are in dissolved form. The topical application formulation can be a composition in the form of a gel,
ointment, solution, lotion, cream, spray, dermal patch, transdermal patch and so forth, so as to deliver sufficient
flavonoid into mammalian (such as human) tissue (e.g., into mammalian keratinous tissue).
Topical Application Amount
                                                           52

                                                                 2                          2
           A typical topical dose ranges from I to 10 mg/cm , preferably I to 5 mg/cm and most preferably from I
 to 3 mg/cm 2 . The dosage varies according to condition and mode of administration The topical dose used in FDA
                                          2
 sunscreen topical testing is 2 mg/cm of formulation applied to exposed skin. "Re: Tentative Final Monograph
for OTC Sunscreen ", Foodand Drug Administration (U.S.). 1998-09-11. Retrieved 2009-09-25 Provided one
 assumes an "average" adult build of height 5 ft 4 in (163 cm) and weight 150 lb (68 kg) with a 32 in (82 cm)
 waist, that adult wearing a bathing suit covering the groin area should apply 29 g (approximately 1 oz) evenly to
 the uncovered body area. Considering only the face, this translates to about 1/4 to 1/3 of a teaspoon for the
 average adult face. Larger individuals should scale these quantities accordingly.
            In terms of the amount of topical medication that generally should be applied to affected skin,
 dermatologists refer to the "fingertip unit" as the recommended guidance. One fingertip unit is the amount of
 topical formulation that is squeezed out from a standard tube along an adult's fingertip. One fingertip unit is
  approximately 500 mg of formulation (tube with a standard 5 mm nozzle), and recommendations for the number
  of units needed to cover affected areas are offered. For example, three fingertip units are required to adequately
  cover psoriasis on the scalp, whereas eight fingertip units are needed for the entire leg and foot. This method
  provides a means for patients to more accurately dose their topical medications.
               Prevention and Treatment of Skin Damage Due to Solar Radiation
               Soluble forms of the flavonoid, e.g. apigenin and/or luteolin, can readily penetrated into and be
     absorbed by the skin to prevent damage (photoaging) or to repair the skin matrix that has been damaged. As
     shown in Example 15 below, the formulations of the subject invention allow significant skin penetration of the
     flavonoid.
               The low solubility of apigenin and/or luteolin in the excipients typically comprising lotions and creams
     makes formation of such compositions with desired amounts of flavonoid in solution difficult. In one
     embodiment, the formulation contains a sufficient amount of solubilized flavonoid at a nearly neutral pH to
     penetrate into the living skin matrix to minimize or eliminate skin tissue damage to protect living skin from
     damage caused by exposure to UV rays and/or pre-penetrate. The topical formulations can be administered to
     an individual, preferably by topical application to the skin of the individual, orally (e.g., as a food supplement),
     etc. The formulations can be administered in an amount effective to prevent UV damage, e.g., to inhibit free
     radicals, reactive oxygen species, and/or other oxidizing species.
                With respect to its anti skin cancer activities, apigenin acts effectively even in very low concentrations,
     < about 50 pM. Apigenin exhibits antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects by affecting apoptosis and necrosis
     mechanisms during cell proliferation and angiogenesis that are the major characteristics of a variety of cancer
                                                                53

 cells including prostrate cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, leukemia, thyroid cancer and liver cancer, resulting
 in the inhibition of proliferation of cancer cells.
            Mechanism
            The primary mechanisms of flavonoids, e.g. apigenin, are believed to be their capability to increase the
 stability of p53; thereby inducing both G1 and G2/M cell cycle arrests and its well documented anti
 inflammatory, anti-oxidant, nontoxic, and non-mutagenic properties. These cell cycle arrests are fully
 reversible after removal of apigenin by washing or its diffusion out of the skin.
            In light of the fact that apigenin causes both GI and G2/M cell cycle arrests, the essence of apigenin's
 chemopreventative activity may be to inhibit cancer initiation and progression by ensuring that sufficient
 intrinsic and artificially imposed cell cycle checkpoints exist in the presence of DNA damaging and tumor
 promoting agents. Apigenin and luteolin treatment of skin prior to sunlight exposure may extend the time cells
 normally arrest in GI and G2/M in response to DNA damage. These flavones increase the duration of the GI
 phase beyond that which occurs in normal cells in response to DNA damage, or alternatively, these flavones
 retard cells containing an activated oncogene in GI when otherwise cell cycle progression would continue even
 in the presence of substantial DNA damage. Hence, the time spent in GI and G2/M is critical for cells to
 efficiently repair all DNA mutations, and thus slow or prevent the carcinogenic process.
             Since the effects of sunlight damage are cumulative over a lifetime, the tumor suppressor protein p5 3 ,
 which is the most commonly mutated gene in all human and animal cancers, may already be inactivated in some
 keratinocytes by the time a person uses a topical application of apigenin and/or luteolin. Since the effects of
these flavones are p53-dependent on the GI arrest and p53-independent on G2/M arrest, in instances where
keratinocytes already have an inactivated p53 gene, apigenin will bolster the G2/M arrest in these small foci of
premalignant cells in order to prevent additional mutations, translocations, and/or chromosome loss during
mitosis. In addition, apigenin and/or luteolin may exert its protective effects by scavenging free radicals
generated in response to UV-B/A sunlight irradiation.
           It is believed that apigenin treatment can enhance the apoptotic response initiated by UVB. Without
being bound by theory, it is believed that the chemo-preventive action of apigenin is explained by its ability to
enhance UV-induced apoptosis by significantly increasing the stability of p53 which is a prime factor in the
skin cancer apoptosis process. Therefore, there is a need to deliver apigenin into the viable epidermis or the
whole skin layer at a pharmaceutically meaningful concentration in order to be effective in skin cancer
prevention. (Li B.; Birt D.F.; Pharmaceutical, Volume 13, Number 1i, November 1996, pp. 1710-1 715(6))
          As disclosed herein, a composition for the topical application containing flavonoids, particularly
apigenin and/or luteolin, is useful for the prevention and/or treatment of skin damage arising from exposure to
                                                           54

solar radiation (UVA and/or UVB). Apigenin and/or luteolin compositions also augment the efficacy of other
ingredients in topical compositions for sunburn prevention and treatment.
          In use, the product can be used in single or multiple applications to attain the desired results. In some
embodiments, the sunscreen ingredients can be part of the formulation, and/or can be applied as a secondary
application such that a film containing the sunscreen ingredients serves to provide additional full spectrum.UV
radiation protection by blocking or reflecting UV radiation.
          Since apigenin and luteolin function intracellularly on the cell cycle, either could be combined 'with
other sunscreen agents that function simply as a barrier on the outside of the cell to absorb, block or reflect UV
energy in sunlight. Thus, topical application of apigenin and/or luteolin, reversible cell cycle regulators,
represents a useful and novel approach for skin cancer prevention and can be used sequentially or in
combination with currently marketed topical sunscreen products.
          These flavonoids are exceptionally beneficial as additives to topical formulations for their anti-oxidant,
anti-inflammatory, UV skin protection and other desirable properties. Thus, topical application of apigenin and
luteolin represent a useful and novel approach for skin cancer prevention/treatment and could be used prior to or
in combination with currently marketed topical sunscreen products.
          Not to be limited by theory, it is believed that the formulations can be employed, for example, to treat
or prevent skin cancers caused by exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light or sunlight.
           Disclosed herein are compositions containing flavonoids or topical applications for the prevention
 and/or treatment of skin cancer and other topical cancers including but not limited to cervical and breast cancer.
 The composition contains pharmaceutically sufficient amount of apigenin to penetrate into the skin layer, e.g.,
 to increase the stability of p53 to prevent and treat skin and other topical cancers.
           It is believed that the UVB photo-protective effects of the antioxidant apigenin and luteolin are
significant when applied in distinct mixtures in appropriate vehicles. Flavonoid(s) together with other
 ingredients provide a natural approach to efficiently supporting the body's own defense mechanism in
providing protection from sunburn and chronic UV damage. The natural antioxidant properties and anticancer
properties of apigenin and/or luteolin combined with mineral pigments provide a synergistic, photo-protective
effect to reduce the risk of UV damage and skin cancer. The other natural ingredients including antioxidants
such as vitamin E and moisturizes can be added to create a synergy that enhances UV protection and also
soothes the skin.
           Also disclosed herein are methods of reducing and/or preventing the effects of sun exposure which can
comprise: applying a topical formulation comprising a flavonoid and a dermatologically acceptable carrier to
                                                          55

 .permit delivery of the flavonoid components to mammalian keratinous tissue. Optionally, the topical cosmetic
  composition can be applied a second time, a third time, or more.
          Cancer
             Three ideal qualities of a cancer chemopreventative agent are: 1) that it is a natural compound present
  in foods known to be associated with reduced cancer incidence; 2) that it has a known mechanism of action; and
  3) that the effects are reversible. It is believed that flavonoids such as apigenin and luteolin satisfy all three
  criteria.
             The formulations of the invention can be used for cancer prevention as well as cancer treatment. The
  formulations are useful for the treatment or prevention of skin cancers (including actinic keratosis, melanoma,
  basal cell carcinoma), ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, leukemia,
  thyroid cancer, liver cancer and brain cancer including neuroblastoma.
           Methods of Treatment of Other Skin Disorders
           The compounds and formulations of the invention are useful for the treatment of psoriasis. Example 15
demonstrates that topical formulations penetrate human skin in a concentration sufficient to be of therapeutic
value.
            Additional dermatological disorders and related afflictions/conditions that can be treated or prevented by
the topical use of the formulations and compositions of this invention include, but are not limited to the following:
acne, alopecia, atopic dermatitis/eczema, cutaneous lupus erythematosus, dermal sensitization and irritation, dry
skin (xerosis, ichthyosis), fungal infections, and rosacea, contact dermatosis, autoimmune afflictions including
psoriasis, and arthritis. The topical administration of apigenin/flavonoids allows excellent bioavailability. Hence,
these topical formulations are alternatives to costly and less desirable steroids and cytotoxic drugs.
            Methods of Treatment of Other Disorders
            The compounds, compositions and formulations of the invention can also be used for the treatment of
 other autoimmune disease such as lupus, arthritis, allergies and asthma. Flavonoid formulations of the invention
 represent new adjuvant therapeutics with efficacy in autoimmune disease. The bioavailability of dietary plant
 derived COX-2 and NF-kB inhibitors, such as apigenin is valuable for suppressing inflammation in lupus and
 other Th17-mediated diseases like rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, and psoriasis, and in prevention of
 inflammation-based tumors overexpressing COX-2 (e.g. colon, breast). Apigenin suppresses lupus by inhibiting
                                                              56

autoantigen presentation for expansion of autoreactive Th1 and Th17 cells. The formulations of this invention
offer a novel means of delivering apigenin/flavonoids for the treatment of autoimmune indications/diseases. The
administration can be as an adjunct to other autoimmune therapies such as an anti-TNF antibody (e.g. for psoriasis
or for rheumatoid arthritis).
          The compounds and formulations are also useful for the treatment of neurological and neurodegenerative
disorders. Several research studies have provided support for apigenin and luteolin's anti-inflammatory effects and
their neuroprotecti ve/disease- modifying properties in various neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's
disease.
          In another embodiment, the compounds and compositions of this invention are useful for the treatment of
allergic diseases as well as bacterial infections.
          Examples of the TNFa related conditions that can be treated, prevented or ameliorated with the
flavonoids of the invention include, but are not limited to, rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis,
osteoarthritis, spondyloarthropaties, inflammatory bowel disease, chronic heart failure, diabetes mellitus, systemic
lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, sarcoidosis, polymyositis/dermatomyositis, psoriasis, multiple myeloma,
myelodysplastic syndrome, acute myelogenous leukemia, Parkinson's disease, AIDS dementia complex,
Alzheimer's disease, depression, sepsis, pyoderma gangrenosum, hematosepsis, septic shock, Behcet's syndrome,
graft-versus-host disease, uveitus, Wegener's granulomatosis, Sjogren's syndrome, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, asthma, acute pancreatitis, periodontal disease, cachexia, cancer, central nervous system injury, viral
respiratory disease, and obesity.
          Examples of the IL-1p related conditions to be treated, prevented or ameliorated with the flavonoids of
the invention include, but are not limited to, rheumatoid arthritis, hematosepsis, periodontal disease, chronic heart
failure, polymyositis/dermatomyositis acute pancreatitis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Alzheimer's
disease, osteoarthritis, bacterial infections, multiple myeloma, myelodysplastic syndrome, uveitis, central nervous
system injury, viral respiratory disease, asthma, depression, and scleroderma.
          Due to the inhibitory activity of flavonoids on IL-4 and IL-13 synthesis, it can be expected that the intake
of flavonoids, depending on the quantity and quality, can ameliorate allergic symptoms or prevent the onset of
allergic diseases. (Int Arch  Allergy Immunol. 2004 Jun; 134(2): 135-40.)
          Apigenin possesses anti-inflammatory activity in human periodontal ligament (hPDL) cells and works
through a novel mechanism involving the action of heme oxygenase-I (HO-1) 1. Thus, apigenin has benefits as a
host modulatory agent in the prevention and treatment of periodontal disease associated with smoking and dental
plaque. (Gil-SaengJeonget al,; Anti-inflammatory effects of apigenin on nicotine- and lipopolvsaccharide
                                                           57

stimulated human periodontal ligament cells via heme oxygenase-!., International Immunopharmacology, Vol.:
9, Nov. 2009).
          In another embodiment, the compounds and formulations of this invention can be useful for promoting
hair growth. Research studies teach that the apigenin stimulates hair growth through downregulation of the TGF
betal gene.
          The formulations of this invention are also useful in the treatment and prevention of arteriosclerosis.
           Other Active Agents
           Formulations made using the methods of the invention of the compounds note in Section I above
 "Compounds of the Invention" can be used for the indications (uses) specified or known for those compounds.
 For example, a formulation of camptothecin made using polysorbate as in the subject invention, can be used in the
 treatment of cancer.
                                                        EXAMP LES
 Example 1. Solubility in Polysorbates
  The Apigenin and Polysorbate 80 resulting product is referred to as "A/PS80". A/PS80 was formed as follows:
        * The unprocessed apigenin powder & viscous liquid polysorbate 80 (PS80) were mixed in the ratio from
            about 5 to 10 wt % of apigenin to 95 to 90 wt % polysorbate 80 and a small quantity of D.I. water and
            optionally acetone and/or ethyl alcohol in a beaker.
        *   This mixture was then thoroughly stirred to form a thick paste-like blend.
        * The mixture was then slowly heated to relatively high temperatures while stirring. The heating was
             accompanied by the boiling off of the water and also volatile constituents present in the polysorbate 80.
             The heating process was conducted with care to avoid the mixture overflowing from the beaker due to
             foaming resulting from the heating process.
        a   Upon the removal of the volatiles and heating to temperatures in excess of about 200 to 300 OC, a dark
             brown transparent liquid resulted such that all the solid apigenin is solubilized in the polysorbate 80
             mixture.
        * Upon cooling to ambient temperatures, a viscous brown clear liquid resulted. The higher the apigenin
             content - the darker the resulting color). Addition of a few crystals of apigenin to the cooled A/PS80
             liquid did not result in precipitation; thereby demonstrating that the A/PS80 liquid is not supersaturated.
   According to the published solubility results shown in the Table VII the solubility of apigenin in water, ethyl
   alcohol and Span 80 are listed as follows: (Ref Li et al, J of Pharm Sci, Vol.86, No. 6, June 1997).
                                                              58

                                                                         0
                            TABLE VII - Solubility of Apigenin @ 25 C-
                                                                SOLUBILITY
                                      SOLVENT
                                                           (mg/ml)     (ppm)
                                 Water                     0.00135         1.35
                                 Ethyl Alcohol             1.65            1,630
                                 Span 80                   0.15            150
            The concentration of apigenin in A/PS80 was measured by HPLC-MS. Based measured the
concentration of apigenin in A/PS80 on the calculated value of 4.05 % concentration of apigenin in the viscous
A/PS80 liquid; the content of apigenin is 40.5 mg/ml or 40,500 ppm.
The following paragraphs list experimental observation attributable to A/PS80.
    "    The addition of A/PS80 to the standard hydrated apigenin lotions (which contain a substantial
         concentration of nanoparticulates) contributed to an enhancement in saturation soluble concentration
         levels. The enhanced solubility level was qualitatively determined via colorimetric testing performed on
         filtrate liquids passing through a 0.2 micron filter.
     "   Addition of AIPS80 to Purell (the widely used bactericidal fluid) resulted in an appreciable apigenin
         soluble level attributable to the high ethyl alcohol content of Purell. The soluble apigenin levels achieved
          with polysorbate 80 were significantly greater than both hydrated apigenin and unprocessed apigenin.
     "    Experiments where A/PS80 was added to Purell followed by the application of the apigenin lotion
          worked quite well. The idea was to take advantage of ethyl alcohol's favorable penetrating and solubility
          properties (note that ethyl alcohol will evaporate shortly after application which will tend to dry out the
          skin) followed by the application of our apigenin formation to assist in skin re-hydration.
 The concentrations of apigenin in weight % for selected solvents as determined by LCMS (Liquid
 Chromatography - Mass Spectroscopy) shown in Table VIII.
                              TABLE VIII - APIGENIN ANALYTICAL SUMMARY
                                             IN SELECTED SOLVENTS
                                                                                   SOLUBLE APIGENIN
                      SAMPLE DESCRIPTION                                             CONCENTRATION
                                                                                    (% Wt/Wt) - (mg/mal)
               Apigenin/PS80 added to Purell Lotion                                   0.52 % - 5.2 mg/mI
               Apigenin/PS80 added to Ethyl Alcohol                                   0.91 % - 9.1 mg/ml
                           Rubbing Solution
                            Apigenin/PS80                                            4.05 % - 40.5 mg/ml
                    (Concentrated Stock Solution)
                                                            59

Additional testing verified that essentially there was insignificant decomposition products resulting as a
consequence of heating PS80 with apigenin to elevated temperatures approaching        - 250 - 300 0 C.
Figure 2 shows a statistical analysis of PS 80 prior to heating as compared to the A/PS80 solution. Insignificant
differences were observed between the control sample and the invention sample showing that the surfactant had
not degraded. In Figure 2, each component detected is represented by a dot. PS80 is a polymer and as such, shows
many oligomers. This explains the large number of components or dots on the plot. The Xs are indicative of mass
features which are distinct to the AIPS80 sample statistically. Very few distinct features were observed indicating
that the PS80 did not significantly degrade. The presence of an only a few Xs indicates few differences between
the control and invention samples.
 Example 2. Solubility of Selected Flavonoid Concentrates in Polysorbate 80 and PEG 400 as Determined
 by HPLC
 The objective of this work was to quantify a total of six different flavonoids in PS80 and PEG-400. The samples
 were also analyzed qualitatively to look for signs of degradation of the solvents due to the elevated temperatures
 required of the thermal treatment process.
 This project was divided into three distinct phases: method validation/development, quantitation of thd individual
 flavones, and qualitative analysis to look for signs of PS80/PEG400 degradation. Method development was
 performed to determine the suitability of a previously used HPLC method for Apigenin for the remaining
 flavonoids to be quantified in either PEG400 or PS80.
 Table IX provides the HPLC measured flavonoid concentration in the as-prepared flavonoid concentrates
 formulated by the thermal treatment process in both PS80 and PEG-400.
                                                             60

                   TABLE IX -              Flavonoid Analytical Summary
                                         In Selected Solvents
                                                                                  Flavonoid in
                Flavonoid                             Solvent                 S lvn          -         i)
                                                                              Solvent - (mg/ml)
                 Quercetin                              PS80                               65.0
                Resveratrol                             PS80                              127.5
                    Rutin                               PS80                               14.3
                  Luteolin                           PEG-400                               72.5
                  Apigenin                           PEG-400                               34.8
                 lesperidin                          PEG-400                          81.0 + 8.0
Statistical Analysis software was used to look for the presence of unique features in the various flavonoid samples
of Table IX when compared to the control PS-80 and PEG-400 reference materials. Liquid Chromatography
Mass Spectroscopy (LCMS) was used to determine PS80 and PEG-400 degradation products. The number of
unique components in each sample ranged from 12 in the Hesperidin-PEG-400 sample to 55 in the Apigenin
PEG-400 sample. A small number of unique components was expected due to the addition of the flavonoid and
any trace components introduced with the flavonoid. Thus, the low number of unique components indicates that
no appreciable degradation occurred.
Example 3. Additional Flavonoid Polysorbate Formulations
In addition to apigenin, testing with Polysorbate 80 was expanded to include several flavonoid compounds. Table
X includes the chemical and physical property data of the flavonoids selected for solubility testing with
Polysorbate 80.
                                                          61

  TABLE X - SUMMARY OF CHEMICAL & PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF FLAVONOIDS TESTED
                                MIP         WATER             PARTI      LISTING OF
   COMPOUND           MW          C)      SOLUBILITY         FLAVONOID SOURCES              APPEARANCE
                                             (mg/mi)
APIGENIN               270     ~360 * 0.00002                 Parsley, Thyme, Celery,     Yellow Crystalline
                                       (> Sol. In alcohol)          Chamomile                   Powder
LUTEOLIN              286      ~330 * 0.38 mg/ml             Celery, Oregano, Thyme.        Yellow Powder
                                      (> Sol. In alcohol)           Chamomile
RESVERATROL           228      ~255 * 0.1 to 0.3 mg/ml       Red Grapes & Red Wine,       White Powder with
                                      50 mg/ml in alcohol      Peanuts, Some Berries      a slight yellow cast
QUERCETIN             302      ~315 * < 1 mg/ml            Apples, Tea, Citrus, Broccoli, Yellow Crystalline
                                     E     3Berries                                             Powder
HESPERIDIN            610      ~260 * Values cited from         Buckwheat, Citrus,         White to Yellow
                                      0.05 to 3 mg/ml            Cherries, Grapes               Powder
RUTIN                 610      ~-242 * 0.07 mg/m            Buckwheat, Citrus, Berries,    Yellow to Green
                                                                        Tea                     Powder
    * saturation concentrations solubility varied depending on published sources
                                                     62

        WO 2012/054090                                                                          PCT/US2011/001802
     Table XI contains a summary of the Polysorbate 80 solubility testing results with a variety of flavonoids.
                          TABLE XI - SUMMARY OF FLAVONOID TESTING WITH PS80
 COMPOUND                            PS80 SOLUBILITY COMMENTS                                     SOLUBLE CONC. RANGE
                                                                                                      (% wt/wt) / (mg/ml)
  APIGENIN       1.   Thermal Treatment method. (Noted in Example 1)                           1.   4- 6% / (40 - 60 mg/ml)
                 1.   Thermal Treatment method.
                                                                                               1. > 8% (>80 mghnl)
                 2.   Luteolin in H20 & PS80 slurry was boiled resulting in                    The upper sol. limit was not
  LUTEOLIN            solubilizing luteolin but to << extent than the Thermal Treatment determined.
                      Method
                                                                                               2. Up to ~ 5% (-50 mg/ml)
                 1.   Thermal Treatment method                                                 1.   > 8% (>80 mg/ml)
RESVERATROL 2.        The H20 boiling method utilized for Luteolin did not dissolve            2.   Dissolution not detectable
                      Resveratrol.
                                                                                               1.   > 7% (>70 mg/ml) The
                 1.   Thermal Treatment method                                                      upper sol. limit was not
 QUERCETIN       2.   Quercetin in H20 & PS80 slurry was boiled resulting in                        determined.
                      solubilizing quercetin but to << extent than the Thermal
                      Treatment method.                                                        2.   << 7%
                 1.   The Thermal Treatment Method resulted in a slight amount
                                                                                        of a   1    ~< 2% (- < 20 g/ml)
                      gray colored precipitate which was removed by filtration with a               Decomposition
 HESPERIDEN           0.2 micron filter.
                 2.   A 5% Hesperidin to PS80 ratio added to water. The mixture was            2.   -<  1%     (- < 10 mg/mI)
                      boiled to form solubilized Hesperidin. No evidence of the
                      "enhanced aqueous solubility" was noted.
                 1.   The Thermal Treatment Method resulted in a slight amount of a
                      gray colored precipitate which was removed by filtration with a          1.- < 1%       (~< 10 mg/ml)
    RUTIN             0.2 micron filter.
                 2.   A 5% Rutin to PS80 ratio added to water. The mixture was boiled 2. - < 0.5%             (~< 15 mg/ml)
                      to form solubilized Rutin. No evidence of the "enhanced aqueous
                      solubility" was noted.
                                                            63

Example 4.      Solubility in Polysorbates other than Polysorbate 80 via the Elevated Temperature Processing
Method
            Non-ionic surfactants are extensively used in cosmetics and foods because they are considered to be
  harmless because they are fatty acid esters of polyalcohol such as sorbitan, sucrose, and glycerin. Consequently,
  it was decided to evaluate a number of suitable nonionic polysorbate structured surfactants to enhance the
  saturation solubility concentration via the high temperature processing methods disclosed in Example 1.
             Table XII lists several nonionic surfactants consisting of PEG-ylated sorbitan (a derivative of sorbitol)
  esterified with fatty acids. All surfactants tested were oily liquids which satisfied the criteria of remaining
  stable at temperatures > 200 'C. Similarly, all tested flavonoids including apigenin were selected on the basis of
  having poor solubility properties.
             It was observed that the flavonoid slurry mixture changes in both particulate solubility and color (a
                                                                                   0
   dark brown-red) was observed when temperature levels exceeded 200 to 300 C. Addition of a few crystals of
   the apigenin to the cooled liquid did not result in precipitation; thereby demonstrating that the liquid is not
   supersaturated.
             The nonionic surfactants listed in Table XII are arranged in order of ascending (Hydrophile-Lipophile
   Balance) HLB values. HLB is an empirical expression for the relationship of the hydrophilic ("water-loving.")
    and hydrophobic ("water-hating") groups of a surfactant. The higher the HLB value, the more water-soluble is
    the surfactant. The majority are lotions (oil-in-water emulsions) or creams (water-in-oil emulsions). The most
    common emulsion type, oil-in-water (o/w), often requires higher HLB surfactants - preferably 12-16 while
    water-in-oil emulsions (w/o) require low HLB surfactants - preferable 7 - 11. Surfactants with an HLB value <
    10 are oil soluble while those > 10 are soluble.
              As noted in Table XII, Span 20 is very suitable for water-in-oil topical formulations while Polysorbate
    80 would be most appropriate for solubilizing apigenin in oil-in-water topical formulations.
                                                             64

               TABLE XII - A Summary of Apigenin Solubility in Nonionic Surfactants via the
                                     High Temperature Processing Method
                                              High Temp.        Apigenin
       NONIONIC             CHEMICAL            Apigenin       Literature    HLB
    SURFACTANTS                NAME            Solubility Solubility @      VALUE              USES
                                                (mg/ml)      (OC) - (mg/ml)
 Span 80                       Sorbitan             ~8             0.15       4.3      Foods, beverages,
                            monostearate                                               Pharmaceuticals
 Span 20                       Sorbitan            ~ 10            0.17       8.6      Foods, beverages,
                             monolaurate         -Pharmaceuticals
                           Polyoxyethylene                                             Disinfection,
 Nonoxynol-9             nonyl phenyl ether       -  30              -       13.0      spermicide,
                                                                                       cosmetics
 Polysorbate 60            Polyoxyethylene                                             Food
                            (20) sorbitan         - 15               -       14.9      Foo,   beverages,
                            monostearatePharmaceuticals
 Polysorbate 80            Polyoxyethylene         ~50                       15.0      Foods, beverages,
                         (20) sorbitan oleate                                    'Pharmaceuticals
 Polysorbate 20            Polyoxyethylene                                             Food
                            (20) sorbitan          ~25               -       16. 7     Foo,   beverages,
                             monolaurate                                               Pharmaceuticals
 *Propylene Glycol                 -ppt.            est. ~ 1        1.0        -       Foods, beverages,
                                              y             pharmaceuticals
Note: * Not a surfactant
                                                         65

Example 5. The Solubility of Active Agents in PS80 and PEG 400 via the Thermal Treatment Method
A study was undertaken to investigate the potential aqueous solubility enhancement of active agents dissolved in
PS80 and PEG 400 by means of the disclosed thermal treatment process.
Table XIII briefly summarizes solubility results of 4 active agents employing the disclosed thermal treatment
process to form concentrates that resulted in the enhancement of aqueous solubility of several relatively insoluble
flavonoids.
                                                        66

               TABLE XIII - A Summary of the Active Agent/ Surfactant Testing
                               Utilizing the Thermal Treatment Process
                                                             1 wt% solubilizod in PS80 @         I wt% solubilized in PEG400 @
                                  Pain      ~                -140 "C & remained solubilized      -140 "C & remained solubilized
                                                             @ Room Temp. VINot Sup.Sol.         @ Room Temp. C' Not Sup. Sat
                                  Relief /   241    230 - Most Mefonamic Acid dissolved          Most Mtenamic Acid pot. out
                      VNAI                                   when H20 was added to 1 wt.%        when HO was added to 1 wt.%
                hNSAID                                       solution.                           solution.
                                                          - 5 wt% solubilized In PS80 @          5 wt% solubilized in PEG400 @
        Dlctolemac Sodtium                                   -200 "C & remained solubilizod      -100 "C & remained solubilized
                             .    Pain                       @ Room Temp. 0]Not Sup.Sat. @ Room Temp. 0 INot Sup.Sat.
                                                          - Diclofenac Sodium remained           Diclofenac Sodium remained
                                  Relief /   318    283 cear when ,0 was added to                clear when F0 was added to
                                  NSAID                      the 10 wt% Sol. - (pH - 7).         the 10 wt% Sol. - (pH -7).
                                                          - Adding citric acid sol. to a       - Adding citric acid sol. to a
                                                             pH - 4 pptd. diclofenac sodium.     pH ~ 4 pptd. diclofenac sodium.
          Oc1WIn=   A-                                       4 wt% solubilized in PS80@          4w1% solubFlizod in PEG400 0
                                                             -140 "C & remained solubilized      -140 "C & remained solubilizod
               r                  Pain                       @ Room Temp. ' ]Not Sup.Sat.        0 Room Temp. V Not Sup.Sat.
                                                         N Diclofenac Acid-romained clear        Diclofenac Acid pptd. when NO
                                                    N HRi when H,0 was added to the 10           was added to the 4 wt% Sol.
         c                 ih     NSAID                      wt% Sol. -(pH - 7.5).               (pH - 7.5).
                                          -               -* A clear soL remained after citric
                                                             acid so. added to a pH -4
                                                          - 10 wt% solubilized in PSBO @         10 wt% solubilized in PEG400
                                                             -200 "C & remained solubilized      @ -175 "C & remained
                       S        Anti                         @PRoom Tempi 0]Not Sup.Sat.         solubilized @ Room Temp.
                 H                                           Fluorouracil remained clear         VINot Sup.Sat.
                                Cancer/       130  282       when H,0 was added to the 5         Fluorouracil remained cicar
                                Keratosis                    wt% Sol. - (pH - 7).                when HIO was added to the 5
                                                          - A clear sol. remained after citric   wt% Sol - (pH - 7).
                                                             acid sot, added to a pH - 4         A clear so. remained after citric
                                                                                                 acid so. added to a pH - 4
 Note: ()The solution was not supersaturated as determined by the addition of a crystal such the
 precipitation did not occur.
The results of this study indicated that the thermal treatment process is useful to improve solubility, dissolution
rate, and subsequently, bioavailability of poorly soluble drugs.
                                                            67

Example 6. Solubility in Ceteareth-20 via the Elevated Temperature Processing Method
Solubility testing with Ceteareth-20, a nonionic surfactant, and the flavonoids, apigenin, luteolin and quercetin,
were subjected to the thermal treatment process to investigate the likelihood of solubility enhancements in
aqueous solutions.
Ceteareth-20 (CAS # 68439-49-6) was obtained from Making Cosmetics.com, Inc located in Renton, WA.
Ceteareth-20 is a polyoxyethylene ether of higher saturated fatty alcohols (cetyl/stearyl alcohol). At room
temperature, Ceteareth-20 is a solid, has no odor and melts at 40 0C. Ceteareth-20 forms oil-in-water emulsions
and has an HLB value ranging from 15-17.
For each of the flavonoid solubility tests, the following procedure was followed:
          1.   Weigh out 6.0 grams of the solid white Ceteareth-20 pellets in a 50 ml Pyrex container.
          2.   Heat the Ceteareth-20 pellets to a temperature slightly in excess of about 100 0C. (The melting point
               of the pellets is about 40 0 C)
          3.   Weigh out 0.06 gms of the flavonoid.
          4.   The flavonoid is added then added to the molten Ceteareth-20.
          5.   The mixture is slowly heat to temperatures in excess of 200 0 C to completely' solubilize the
               flavonoid/Ceteareth-20 mixture.
          6.   The solubilized mixture is cooled to < ~ 80 0 C and while still in the liquid state both water and
               alcohol solvents are added and solubility observations are noted. Also., supersaturation observations
               were noted by the addition of a crystal to note if precipitation resulted.
Table XIV summarizes the experimental observations of the thermally treated enhanced solubility observations.
The ease of solution appears to be in the following order:
                    Quercetin > Luteolin > Apigenin
The 3 tested flavonoids required temperatures > 200 0 C to fully solubilize the    1 wt /wt % in Ceteareth-20. All
flavonoid concentrated solutions were completely soluble in ethyl alcohol. Also, all flavonoids solutions were
fully solubilized when each of the flavonoid/Ceteareth-20 solutions were mixed with an equivalent volume of
water. Significant increased aqueous solubility concentrations of 3 relatively aqueous insoluble flavonoids in
Cetearth-20 resulted via the thermal treatment process.
                                                           68

                  TABLE XIV - A Summary of the Flavonoid/Ceteareth-20 Solubility Results
                                 MP        Conc. In
     FLAVONOID          MW       (c)     Ceteareth-20                           COMMENTS
                                           (mg/ml)
                                                          The least soluble of the tested Flavonoids. Required the
      APIGENIN          270     -360          ~10         highest temperature, > 200 OC, to solubilize the I wt/wt
                                                          %. Not Super Saturated at Room Temp. via crystal
                                                          addition.
                                                          A small quantity dissolved at 100 0 C . A temperature of
      LUTEOLIN          286     -330         -   10        > 200 OC required for compete solubilization Not Super
                                                           Saturated at Room Temp. via crystal addition.
                                                          Temperatures > 200 OC were required for complete
     QUERCETIN          302     -315         -  10         solubilization. Not Super Saturated at Room Temp. via
                                                           crystal addition.
Example 7.- Aqueous Solubility Comparisons of Aqueous Insoluble Planar Cyclic Organic Compounds in
Polysorbate 80 - with and without the Formation of Concentrates via the Thermal Treatment Process
Mefenamic Acid, Luteolin and Apigenin, aqueous insoluble planar aromatic compounds, were solubilized in
Polysorbate 80 at elevated temperatures to form stable soluble concentrates that when cooled to ambient
temperatures resulted in soluble concentrations that were not super saturated and far exceeded anticipated
saturation concentrations. Testing for supersaturation was evaluated by the addition a crystal to the solution at
room temperature. Water was added to these concentrates and their aqueous solution characteristics noted. For
comparative purposes, the same quantities of ingredients in the concentrates were separately added to the same
quantity of water prior to heating to near boiling. After cooling to room temperatures, visual observations of both
the Polysorbate 80 concentrate and non-concentrate methods were compared.
 When similar quantities of mefenamic acid; luteolin and apigenin
and polysorbate 80 that were used to prepare the concentrate were added to 17 ml of water and heated to near
boiling temperatures, opaque solutions were formed. When the solutions were cooled to ambient temperatures,
most of the mefenamic acid, luteolin and apigenin did precipitate from the aqueous solutions.
The data on the order and manner in the mixing of polysorbate 80 with relatively aqueous insoluble cyclic organic
compounds to enhance their solubility in aqueous solutions indicates that the compounds initially be heated and
solubilized in polysorbate 80 to form a concentrate prior to being dissolved in water.
                                                          69

                           ---  -   -- TABLE XV      -  Polysorbate 80 Test Result             -
                                                      Literature    Prepared Thermal
                                           MP -      Solubility in      Treatment          Soin. Comments when 17 ml
   CHEMICAL          Classification MW              HC               concentration in     -Temp. of H ao was added to 3
                                                                      Polysorbate 80        (0"C) gms of the concentrate
                                                       (mglml(mgml)
                                                                             10
  MEFENAMIC Active Agent              241   230          0.004      Not Super Sat. when    -140   A clear soln formed.
       ACID                                                           cooled to Room
                                                                           Temp.
                                                                             50
                      Flavonoid       286    330          0.14      Not Super Sat. when     ~250  A clear son formed.
   LUTEOLIN
                     (A Flavonc)                                      cooled to Room
                                                                           Temp.
                                                                             30
                      Flavonoid       270    360         0.001      Not Super Sat. when     -270  A clear soln formed.
   APIGENIN                                                           cooled to Room
                     (A Flavone)
                                                                           Temp.
Example 8. Aqueous Solubility Comparisons of Relatively Aqueous Insoluble Planar Cyclic Organic
Compounds in Nonoxynol-9 - with & without the Formation of Nonoxynol-9 Concentrates via the Thermal
Treatment Process
Solubility testing with nonoxynol-9, a commonly utilized nonionic surfactant in cosmetic and cleaning products,
was studied as a solubilizing agent for the relatively aqueous insoluble planar aromatic compounds such as
mefenamic acid (an active agent), luteolin (a flavonoid) in addition to apigenin. The mefenamic acid, luteolin
and apigenin were solubilized in nonoxynol-9 at elevated temperatures to form stable soluble concentrates that
when cooled to ambient temperatures resulted in soluble concentrations that were not supersaturated and exceeded
anticipated saturation concentrations. The concentrates were added to water and their aqueous solution
characteristics noted. For comparative purposes, the same quantities of ingredients in the concentrates were
separately added to the same volume of water prior to heating to near boiling. After cooling to room temperatures,
visual observations of both the concentrates and non-concentrate methods were compared.
Table XVI summarizes the results of the prepared nonoxynol-9 concentrations, the temperatures required for
solubilization and observations relating to the clarity of the aqueous concentrate solutions.
                                                            70

                                     TABLE XVI      - Nonoxynol-9 Test Results
                                                       Literature     Prepared Thermal
                                               MIP    Solubility in       Treatment         Soln.  Comments when 17 ml
    CHEMICAL          Classification  MW                 HO @          Concentration In   Temp.    6f HIO was added to 3
                                              (C)         25 *C          Nonoxynol-9         (0C)  gms of the concentrate
                                                        (mg/mI)            (mg/mi)
                                                                              10
   MEFENAMI           Active Agent    241     230        0.004        Not Super Sat. when  - 140   A clear soln formed.
        ACID                                                           cooled to Room
                                                                            Temp.
                                                                              50                   A clear soln formed.
     LUTEOLIN          Flavonoid      286     330         Q.        . Not Super Sat. when  .                  n50
                      (A Flavone)                                      cooled to Room
                                                                            Temp.
                                                                              30
    APIGENIN           Flavonoid      270     360        0.001        Nor Super Sat. when      .   A clear soln formed.
                      (A Flavone)     -                                cooled to Room
                                                                            Temp.
When similar quantities of mefenamic acid, luteolin and apigenin and nonoxynol-9 that were used to prepare the
concentrate were added to 17 ml of water and heated to near boiling temperatures, opaque solutions were formed.
When the solutions were cooled to ambient temperatures, most of the mefenamic acid, luteolin and apigenin did
precipitate from the aqueous solutions.
The data on the order and manner in the mixing of nonoxynol-9 with relatively aqueous insoluble cyclic organic
compounds to enhance their solubility in aqueous solutions indicates that the compounds initially be heated and
solubilized in nonoxynol-9 to form a concentrate prior to being dissolved in water.
Example 9. Cholesterol Solubility Tests
The rings of cholesterol are composed of saturated hydrocarbon rings because each corner of the ring is composed
of a carbon atom, with two hydrogen atoms extending off the ring. The flavonoids are primarily composed of
cyclic planar unsaturated aromatic rings while cholesterol contains cyclic planar saturated rings. Significantly,
most steroids share the cholesterol ring structure.
Aqueous solubility testing of Cholesterol with the nonionic surfactants PS80 and Nonoxynol-9 and the solvent
PEG 400 via the formation of concentrates by the thermal treatment process and the non-concentrate method
were conducted.
The materials used for this testing included:
         "    Super-refined grades of PS80 and PEG 400 were obtained from Croda Inc of Edison, NJ.
         "    Nonoxynol-9 was obtained from Spectrum Chemical, New Brunswick, NJ
                                                          71

           *    Cholesterol was obtained from Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, - with a purity of > 99%.
  Cholesterol properties and the concentrations of the prepared concentrates are summarized in Table XVII.
                              TABLE XVII- Cholesterol Test Results
                                                                                                Thrmal
                                                                                            Prepaed              Prepared
                                            Literature      Prepared Thermal         Prepared Thermal            Thermal
CHEMICAL            MW         MP 1C      Solubility in          Treatment             Concentrate in           Treatment
                                          H2 0 @ 25 0 C    Concentrate in PS80         Conenat               Concentrate in
                                             (mg/ml)              (mg/ml)               Nonoxynol-9              PEG-400
                                                                                                                  (mg/ml)
 Cholesterol        387         150           0.0001                 10                       10                    10
                       NOTE: Cholesterol is listed as soluble in benzene, chloroform, ether, hexane,
                                          isopropyl myristate, acetone & methanol
  Cholesterol solubility testing in PS80, nonoxynol-9 and PEG 400 by initially forming concentrates of the solvents
  included the following steps:
            *   30 mg of Cholesterol was added to 2.97 grams of PS80, nonoxynol-9 and PEG 400 which were
                contained in separate 50 ml beakers
            e   The mixtures were heated about 120 0C and 80 0C for the PS80, nonoxynol-9 and PEG 400
                compositions, respectively.
            *   Testing for supersaturation at room temperature was evaluated by the addition of a crystal to the
                solution to determine if precipitation occurred.
            e   Visual observations of the clarity of the Cholesterol aqueous solutions in PS80, nonoxynol-9 and
                PEG 400 after the addition of 17 ml of water to each of the concentrates were made more than 50
                hours after cooling to room temperature.
 The PS80 and nonoxynol-9 aqueous solutions of Cholesterol remained clear more than 50 hours after cooling the
 solutions to ambient temperatures. However, when the 17 ml of water was added to the Cholesterol/PEG 400
 concentrate, a cloudy opaque solution resulted. It should be noted that after the addition of a few mis of water a
 clear solution resulted.
 For comparative purposes, similar quantities of ingredients present in the Cholesterol concentrates were separately
 added to the same volume of water prior to heating to near boiling.
 Aqueous solution testing included the following steps:
           *   In separate 50 ml beakers, 30 mg of Cholesterol, and 17 ml of water were added to 2.97 grams of
               PS80, Nonoxynol-9 and PEG 400 which were contained in separate 50 ml beakers.
           "   Each solution was heated to about 100 0 C while mixing.
           "   Visual observations of the clarity of each of the Cholesterol containing solutions were made after the
               solutions were cooled to room temperatures.
                                                           72

The PS80, Nonoxynol-9 and PEG 400 Cholesterol solutions resulted in opaque cloudy solutions.
This Example demonstrates that the compounds should be heated and solubilized in surfactants such as PS80 and
nonoxynol-9 to form a concentrate, prior to the addition of water.
Example 10 - Solubility Studies of Apigenin in Propylene Glycol and Ethylene Glycol
Apigenin is known to be only sparsely soluble in hydrophilic and lipophilic surfactants tested (0.15-0.68 mg/ml)
at 25 0C. (Li et al., Journal of PharmaceuticalSciences, Vol. 86, No. 6, June 1997). Since the thermal treatment
methods of surfactants herein disclosed resulted in significantly enhanced aqueous and lipophilic phase solubility
enhancements, it was decided to perform experiments to determine the solubility properties/characteristics of
apigenin in polypropylene glycol (PG) and ethylene glycol (EG) which are surfactant solvents used as precursors
to manufacture some of the surfactants evaluated above. Observations resulting from the exposure of apigenin
solubilized in PG and EG were made.
Propylene Glycol is a colorless, nearly odorless, clear, viscous liquid with a faintly sweet taste, hygroscopic and
miscible with water. PG is a solvent in many pharmaceuticals, including oral, injectable and formulations. It as is
used as a humectant for many applications and as a moisturizer in medicines, cosmetics, food, toothpaste,
shampoo, mouthwash hair care and tobacco products. Its boiling point is 188 0 C and its molecular weight is 76
gm/mole. Propylene glycol is the base subunit comprising the polypropylene glycol surfactants (PPGs).
Propylene Glycol's structural formula is:
                                                 H
                                   H-      C      C   0    H
                                         H       H
                                           C3H 70   2
Ethylene glycol. is a colorless, oily liquid possessing a sweet taste and mild odor. Its molecular weight is 62 and
its boiling point 197 0C. Ethylene glycol is the base subunit comprising the polyethylene glycol surfactants
(PEGs).
Ethylene glycol's structural formula is:
                                             H H
                                              I I
                                       HO -C-    C- OH
                                              I   I
                                             H H
                                                           73

 The solubility testing for both PG & EG were performed as follows:
      "    In separate 18 ml vials, 200 mg of Apigenin was added to 4.80 gram of PG and also to EG. Both vials
                                       0
           were heated to about 175      C for the PG vial & to about 190 0 C for the EG vial. Apigenin was completely
           solubilized in both vials to form 40 mg/ml solutions.
      "    Upon cooling to room temperature, appreciable apigenin precipitation was observed for both PG and EG
           solutions. Thus demonstrating that these solutions were supersaturated.
      e    The apigenin/PG and the apigenin/EG mixtures were then centrifuged for 20 minutes at 3,600 rpm;
           resulting in a pale yellow clear liquid and substantial fraction of precipitated apigenin that had separated
           out of both solutions.
 In addition, after a few drops of water were added to the saturated solubilized apigenin/PG and EG solutions, a
 significant fraction of the solubilized apigenin precipitated out of both solutions thus limiting their usefulness for
 subsequent aqueous formulation development.
 Example 11 - Solubility of Flavonoid Surfactant and PEG 400 Concentrates in Oil Solvents
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate enhancement of planar ring structured organic compounds
solubility concentrations in oil. In general, nonionic surfactants are characterized by hydrophilic head groups that
do not ionize appreciably in water. Examples include polyoxyethylenated alkylphenols, alcohol ethoxylates,
alkylphenol ethoxylates, and alkanolamides. Nonionic surfactants tend to be good solubilizers and are relatively
nontoxic. They are usually easily blended with other types of surfactants (i.e., used as cosurfactants) and therefore
have found widespread use in cosmetic, pharmaceutical and environmental applications. The performance of
nonionic surfactants, unlike anionic surfactants, is relatively insensitive to the presence of salts in solution.
The Hydrophile-Lipophile Balance (HLB) number is an indication of the relative strength of the hydrophilic and
hydrophobic portions of the molecule and can be used to characterize the relative affinity of surfactants for
aqueous and organic phases. A high HLB number generally indicates good surfactant solubility in water, while a
low HLB number indicates a lower aqueous solubility and higher relative affinity for the organic phase. A
surfactant with a low HLB number can partition significantly into the organic phase and form reverse micelles
having hydrophilic interiors and lipophilic exteriors.
                                                            74

Polyglyceryl-4 Oleate (CAS# 68605-19-6), nonionic surfactant with a HLB value of 5 suggests suitability for
enhancing the solubility of planar ring structured organic compounds for oil based topical formulations while
Polysorbate 80 as noted in Example 4 with an HLB value of 15 should be most appropriate for solubilizing
apigenin in oil-in-water topical formulations.
Polyglycerol-4 Oleate obtained from Making Cosmetics (Renton, WA) is a distilled triyglycerol ester based on
vegetable oleic acid and is PEG-free. It disperses in water and is well suited for water-in-oil emulsions).. Borage
oil was obtained from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO) and Mineral Oil, USP, Canola Oil and Jojoba Oil from
Spectrum Chemical of New Brunswick, NJ.
Tables XVIII, XIX & XX summarize visual observation when concentrates of luteolin in polyglcyeryl-4 oleate
and apigenin in polysorbate 80 and PEG-400 were added to a variety of oils. It should be noted that luteolin and
apigenin are insoluble in the test oils and that the 10 mg/ml luteolin concentrate in polyglcyeryl-4 oleate was not
supersaturated at room temperature as determine by the absence of a precipitate upon the addition of a luteolin
crystal to the luteolin/polyglcyeryl-4 oleate concentrate.
The lower HLB valued emulsifiers are better in water in oil as they are more lipophilic; the higher valued HLB
emulsifiers are more hydrophilic
                   TABLE XVIII - Solubility Observations of a Luteolin/Polyglyceryl-4 Oleate
                                                   Concentrate in Oils
       OIL            Observations when 1 ml of a 10 mg/ml Luteolin/ Polyglyceryl -4 Oleate Concentrate was
                                                     added to 5 ml of Different Oils
   Mineral Oil                                              Totally Miscible
     Jojoba                                                 Totally Miscible
     Canola                                                 Totally Miscible
     Borage                                                 Totally Miscible
                                                           75

                     TABLE XIX - Solubility Observations of an Apigenin/Polysorbate 80
                                                Concentrate in Oils
      OIL          Observations when 1 ml of a 30 mg/ml Apigenin/ Polysorbate 80 Concentrate was added
                                                       to 5 ml of Different Oils
  Mineral Oil       The PS80 phase containing the solubilized Apigenin separated out from the Mineral oil
                              phase - minimal solubilization of the PS80 phase in the Oil phase noted
     Jojoba                                   Similar to the Mineral Oil Observations
    Canola                                    Similar to the Mineral Oil Observations
    Borage                                    Similar to the Mineral Oil Observations
                         TABLE XX - Solubility Observations of an Apigenin/PEG-400
                                                Concentrate in Oils
      OIL           Observations when 1 ml of a 30 mg/ml Apigenin/ PEG-400 Concentrate was added to 5
                                                          ml of Different Oils
  Mineral Oil        Two distinct clear phases resulted with the PEG-400 containing solubilized Apigenin
                                                               settle out
     Jojoba                                   Similar to the Mineral Oil Observations
     Canola                                   Similar to the Mineral Oil Observations
     Borage                                   Similar to the Mineral Oil Observations.
Example 12. Capsaicin Solubility Tests
Aqueous solubility testing of capsaicin (a pain reliever) with the nonionic surfactants PS80 and the solvent PEG
400 via the formation of concentrates by the thermal treatment process and the non-concentrate method were
compared.
The materials used for this testing included:
         e    Super-refined grades of PS80 and PEG 400 were obtained from Croda Inc of Edison, NJ.
         *    Capsaicin was obtained from Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, Product # 360376.
Capsaicin properties and the concentrations of the prepared concentrates are summarized in Table XXI.
                                                          76

                                     TABLE XXI - Properties of Capsaicin
                                                     Literature       Prepared Thermal            Prepared Thermal
                             -MV         MP          Solubility           Treatment                    Treatment
     CHEMICAL
                                         ( 0C)       in 1-120 @        Concentrates in              Concentrates in
                                                    DC (mg/ml)          PS80 (mg/ml)             PEG-400 (mg/ml)
       Capsaicin              305         65           < 0.01                  40                           40
                       NOTE: Merck lists Capsaicin as insoluble water but soluble in benzene,
                                              chloroform. ether, and alcohol.
Capsaicin solubility testing in PS80 and PEG 400 by initially forming concentrates using the thermal treatment
method:
         *     30 mg of capsaicin was added to 2.97 grams of PS80 and PEG 400 which were contained in
               separate 50 ml beakers
         *     These mixtures were heated to about 50 0C while mixing.
          *    Addition of a few crystals of capsaicin to the cooled liquids did not result in precipitation; thereby
               demonstrating that these liquid is not supersaturated.
          *    Visual observations of the clarity of the capsaicin aqueous solutions in PS80 and PEG 400 upon the
               addition of 17 ml of water to each of the capsaicin concentrates were made after more than 50 hours
               subsequent to cooling to room temperature.
A clear solution of the PS80 concentrate resulted after the addition of 17 ml of H2O and remained so more than
50 hours after the solution cooled to room temperature. However, a clear solution resulted after only the addition
of a few mis of water (about 2 to 4 mls) to the capsaicin/PEG 400 concentrate which became opaque and cloudy
with the addition of 17 ml of H 2 0.
For comparative purposes, similar quantities of ingredients present in the Capsaicin concentrates were separately
added to the same volume of water prior to heating to near boiling.
Aqueous solution testing included the following steps:
         *    In separate 50 ml beakers, 30 mg of capsaicin and 17 ml of water were added to 2.97 grams of PS80
              and PEG 400 which were contained in separate 50 ml beakers.
         "    Each solution was heated to about 100 0 C while mixing.
         "    Visual observations of the clarity of the capsaicin aqueous solutions in PS80 and PEG 400
              subsequent to the addition of 17 ml of water to each of the capsaicin concentrates were made more
              than 50 hours after cooling to room temperature.
The PS80 and PEG 400 capsaicin solutions resulted in opaque cloudy solutions.
This Example demonstrates that these compounds be heated and solubilized in surfactants such as PS8O to form a
concentrate, prior to the addition of water.
                                                           77

Example 13. Coenzyme Q10, Polysorbate 80 and Jojoba Oil Solubility Testing
Since it was experimentally observed that the thermal process of forming concentrates (made from nonionic
surfactants such as PS80 and a variety of organic compounds containing planar aromatic ring structures), is
effective in enhancing aqueous solubility, solubility testing with CoQ10, a planar aromatic ring structured
compound with good oil solubility, together with PS80 and an oil such as Jojoba, was conducted to provide
additional data.
Coenzyme QlO, an oil-soluble vitamin-like substance, is present in most cells primarily in the mitochondria. It is
a component of the electron transport chain and participates in aerobic cellular respiration, generating energy in
the form of ATP. Ninety-five percent of the human body's energy is generated this way.
Jojoba oil is a mixture of wax esters, 36 to 46 carbon atoms in length. Each molecule consists of a fatty acid and a
fatty alcohol joined by an ester bond. 98% of the fatty acid molecules are unsaturated at the 9th carbon-carbon
bond.
Jojoba oil, Coenzyme Q10 and polysorbate 80 were obtained were obtained from Making Cosmetics, Renton,
WA.
Initial testing (Test 1) verified the immiscibility of the Jojoba and water oil phases. Accordingly,
      e    6 ml of Jojoba oil and 20 ml of water were thoroughly mixed in a 30 ml beaker.
      9    After more than 2 hours, it was observed that the pale yellow colored Jojoba oil and water phases
           separated. The water phase was clear and also colorless indicating that the pale yellow jojoba oil was
           insoluble in the aqueous phase.
The next test (Test 2) was conducted as follows:
     e     0.3 grams of the orange CoQI0 powder was added to 1 gram of PS80 and heated to about 50 0C. The
           CoQl0 dissolved in the PS80 forming a red/orange colored solution. The CoQ10 remained solubilized
           and remained solubilized when the mixture was cooled to room temperature.
     *     Testing for supersaturation at room temperature was evaluated by the addition of a crystal to the solution
           to determine if precipitation occurred. It was observed that the CoQ 10 /PS80 concentrate was not
           supersaturated.
     0     6 ml of Jojoba oil was mixed with 20 ml of water and the mixture was thoroughly stirred while heated to
           about 50 0C.
     e    The water in oil mixture at 50 0 C was then added to the CoQIOIPS80 concentrate and thoroughly stirred
          for about 1 minute.
     e    After a little more than 2 hours, it was noted that the water phase contained the CoQ10 as observed by
          the clear red/orange colored water phase. The Jojoba oil phase separated from the aqueous phase and
          appeared to have little, if any, dissolved CoQ10 as observed by the pale yellow colored jojoba oil phase
                                                            78

                     distinct from the red/orange color of the aqueous phase indicative of the solubilized CoQlO/PS80
                     concentrate.
        The final testing (Test 3) with CoQ10, Jojoba oil and water was carried out as follows:
                           * 0.3 grams of the CoQ10 powder were dissolved in 6 ml of Jojoba oil at room temperature. To
                               this mixture was added 1 gram of PS80 and the resulting mixture was then heated to about 50
                               0C.
                           *   20 ml of water which was preheated to about 50 0C was added to this mixture. The combined
                               mixture was thoroughly stirred for 1 minute.
                           0   After about 2 hours, it was visually observed that most of the CoQ10 did separate from the
                                aqueous phase and was mostly concentrated in the red/orange Jojoba oil phase. Also, the
                                aqueous phase was partially opaque and quite unlike the clear aqueous phase of the beaker in
                                Test 2 which contained the bulk of the red/orange solubilized CoQ10.
        As a consequence of these tests, it is concluded that the poorly soluble CoQ10 initially be solubilized in
        PS80 to form a concentrate in order to enhance its solubility in aqueous solutions.
        Example 14- Preparation of Topical Formulations of Apigenin using Apigenin/Surfactant Concentrates
        Active agent concentrates can be used to formulate compositions with a higher concentration of dissolved active
        agent in the prepared formulation than that achievable without the use of making the active agent concentrates
        first. Multiple prototype solution, gel, ointment, and emulsion topical formulations containing Apigenin in the
        dissolved state were prepared using a Apigenin/Polysorbate-80 concentrate and an Apigenin/PEG300 concentrate.
        These formulations are summarized in Tables XXII & XXIII.
             Table XXII - Prototype Solution, Gel and Ointment, Formulations Prepared with Apigenin/Surfactant
                                                                       Concentrates
                                                                                                                Apigenin dissolved in PEG300        Apigenin dissolved in PS80
                                                    Apigenin dissolved in PS80 Concentrate                                concentrate                       concentrate
                                      Anhydrous   Anhydrous     Aqueous                                          Anhydrous          Anhydrous       Aqueous gel      Control
                                     (DMSO/EIOH) enh'Oiay      (No EtOH)                   Aqueous              PEG Solution      PEG Ointment       (modified)      solution
omponent                                                                               % w/w
pigenin (API)
pigenin/PS80 concentrate (5.6%
/wAPIGENIN)                               9           9             9         9          9        9     9                                                9               9
pigenin/PEG300 concentrate
  .5% w/w APIGENIN)                                                                                                  14.3              14.3
 imethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)                     45                                 45      -                                                           :
olysorbate 80 (PS80)                                                                        21       10       1
olyethylene glycol 300 (PEG 300,
Gmax -57%)                                                                                                                  14.7       -
EG 200 (IIG max - 39%)                                                                                                       39              13.7
 EG 3350 (IIG max 40%)                                                                                                                         40
 Dan 80                                                                                                     7
Vater                                                                   34        46        33     J6     72                                                  51.5            54
50mM NacI                                                                            I
 thanol (EtOH)                                 46          66                                        45                                           1
ropylene giycol (PG)                110                                 20                                                    2|201
 ooropyl myristate (IPM)                                                                                                                          I
ranscutol (TC)                                                          25                  25                                                                  25|            25
 imethvl isosorbide (DMI)            _                                                         I
                   (exy)ene
            glycol (HG). -                                               12                 12             12112                 112                            121            12
 lvristyi lactate (ML)                                     10
  leic acid (OAc)                                           5
  1eyl alcohol (OA)
 odium hyaluronate (NaH, Ultra                                                                                                                        793094
iw molecular weight)                                                                                                                                1793094 0.5
 odium hyaluronate (NaH, High
molecular weight [e.g.;100KDa)                                                                                                                                 2.0
                              TOTAL         100.0       100.0         100.0 i10.|        100.0    100.0 100.0              100.0|           100.--0          100.0|         100.0

  Table XXIII - Emulsion Formulations Prepared with Apigenin/Surfactant Concentrates
                                                      Emulsions (0.25% w/w Apigenin)
                                   Formulation #             17                      18
         Component                                                  %WlW
         Apigenin 5.6% 1PSBO Concentrate                               4.5               4.5
         Methylparaben, NF                                              .7              0.1
                                                  00.
         Carbopol 980                                                             0.4     0.
         Pemnulen TR1                                                                     0.5
         Nhite petrolatum, NF
         DioleHOIsoltn,       NF5                                     0.03              0H.03dpH
         \/yristyl lactate, NF                                             512.2
         Cyclomethicone, NF                                                21C
     -   Devi alcohol, NF                                                           2        2
         Cholesterol, NF1
         Sutylated hydroxytoluene, NF (BHT)                                       0.1     0.
         Dilute HCI solution, NF                          QSad pH7               QSad pH-7
         10% NaOH Solution
                                            Total-            0                     100
Example 15- In Vitro Percutaneous Absorption of Apigenin from Formulations Using Human Skin
                                                 80

Overall, data from this in vitro skin permeation experiment indicated that DPSI prototypes exhibited a range of
delivery profiles from various formulation bases with contrasting organoleptic/cosmetic properties.
The purpose of this study was to characterize in vitro percutaneous absorption of Apigenin from topical
formulations following application to excised human skin from elective surgery.
This study was conducted using procedures adapted from the FDA and AAPS Report of the Workshop on
Principles and Practices of In Vitro Percutaneous Penetration Studies: Relevance to Bioavailability and
Bioequivalence (Skelly et al., 1987). Human tissue from a single donor was dosed with 5 mg/cm      2
                                                                                                     of formulation.
. The compositions of all the formulations evaluated in this study are summarized in Table XXIV and XXV.
The clinically relevant dose of 5 mg/cm 2 was applied to dermatomed human abdominal tissue from a single donor
obtained following elective surgery. The thickness of the tissue ranged from 0.034 inches (0.870 mm) with a
mean +/- standard deviation in thickness of +/- 0.005 inches
(+/- 0.131 mm) and a coefficient of variation of 15%.
Percutaneous absorption was evaluated using this human abdominal tissue from a single donor mounted in
Bronaugh flow-through diffusion cells. The cells were maintained at a constant temperature of 32 *C by use of
recirculating water baths. These cells have a nominal diffusion area of 0.64 cm 2. Fresh receptor phase (PBS, pH
7.4, containing 0.1% sodium azide and 4% Bovine Serum Albumin) was continuously pumped under the tissue at
a flow rate of nominally 0.25 ml/hr and collected in 6-hour intervals. The receptor phase samples were collected
in pre-weighed scintillation vials; the post weights were taken at the end of the study. Following the 24-hour
duration exposure, the formulation residing on the tissue surface was removed by tape-stripping with CuDerm D
Squame stripping discs. The epidermis, dermis, and receptor phase samples were labeled and frozen prior to
subsequent analysis of Apigenin content by LC-MS/MS and ultimate sample disposal.
Generally, permeation of Apigenin into the receptor compartment was low. However, relatively high permeation
into the receptor phase was achieved when Apigenin was applied in neat DMSO. Moderate dermal deposition
was observed while relatively high epidermal values were associated with the majority of the compositions
evaluated. Overall, DMSO based solutions, 3530-14A, -15B and -31 (neat DMSO control) produced the highest
tissue penetration and deposition. An anhydrous solution (3530-14B, EtOH/PO/IPM/ML/Oleic acid) also offered
relatively favorable delivery characteristics. Although formulation 3530-14B generated lower tissue penetration
and deposition to than the DMSO based solutions it may offer a viable alternative. As anticipated, the PEG based
solution produced greater delivery than the PEG ointment.
Several semi-solid prototypes were evaluated and included an aqueous gel (3530-22), an aqueous gel based nano
suspension (3530-24), two emulsions (3530-29 [Emulsifying wax base] and -30 [Pemulen base]) and a PEG
ointment (3530-18B). It was notable that the presence of Sodium hyaluronate polymer in the aqueous gel did not
significantly impair receptor penetration and dermal deposition when compared to the analogous solution control.
                                                         81

In terms of delivery efficiency (% of applied dose) of Apigenin, the Pemulen emulsion offered slightly more
favorable delivery characteristics relative to a solubilized Apigenin/Sodium hyaluronate based gel (3530-22).
When amount delivered was considered, the aqueous gel (3530-22) generated higher tissue deposition than the
Pemulen emulsion. However, the Pemulen emulsion generated the highest receptor levels of the semi-solid
compositions tested, when efficiency and amount delivered were evaluated.
Figure 3 is a graphical illustration of the epidermal, dermal, receptor fluid and total penetration apigenin profiles
as a percentage of the applied apigenin dosage content for the several topical formulations.
                                                             82

                                       TABLE XXAV               - SOLUTION AND GEL COMPOSITIONS
                        Apee~~m4~n       Apigenin dimsolvea P980
                                       Anhfircus      khydmus aIi
                                                                    Coi-centraie
                                                                        Aqueous
                                                                                 jppnnis~wnrG0
                                                                                    Anhydro        us      Ados
                                                                                                                  4 ~ igenindsuie.in ?SOO
                                                                                                                   cueous gef         Ccn-
                                                                                                                                                    Hnosusperrsi
                                                                                                                                                     Aqueous getI
                                 ____________________       _______  _________     PEGSoliton (PEGOimet I 1modiiedl I                 satcl i         (mwied1          _____
Fomuiation~ #                                 I              Z.            4?            9         10i                  13      114 1                         15    1       ia
                 Formula~un Q;: 3530-1       $4A             M4B                        ~s  A          10lS             22           32                    24                31
Comoonent                               ____           ____________                                     % wiw     ____              _________________
                                                                                                                                                                       i.
Apigenin (APQfI_
ApigeniniPS60 concentrate (5.6%
wlw Apigeninl
                                     f
                                              9
                                                _ _ _T_____                         ____            ____t____.
                                                                                                  ______
                                                                                                  _____
                                                                                                                         9       I_ ____
                                                                                                                                         ___
                                                                                                                                         ___      _______
                                                                                                                                                           0.
                                                                                                                                                                        _____
                                                                                                                                                                              5'
ApigelIEG300 concentrate (3.5%                                                                  T[I
  whvApigenin)                       j    ___          _____                            14.3    I 14.3              _     __j
Dinrelivi suffoaite (DMS0)                         ds                          451___I
    Pdysos~  80 (PS60                     ____            _____                              11_____                  ____             ____         ______F_____
Pd)elhylene g1jrol 300 (PEG      3M0   11G[II
PEG 200(1MG    max-3%                     ____            _____                               39.           1331_      ____.____
                                                                                 I_____                         Q_____
PEG 33501110
Smn 80
Waiest______
                man 40%l
                                     1.......
                                     j____               _____
                                                                                                         461   ______     _____
                                                                                                                                    ____
                                                                                                                                         51.5!
                                                                                                                                                46
                                                                                                                                                   5    ______      0_
I5OniM NaCI                                                                          ___                                      I                                 ____       ___
Elfanoi (EtOH)                                     46               66           T_____           _____1_____                       ____              _____                ____
prwere plr fPG)                                                     10                         20*             24
Transcutd (101                                                                                                                251__            251___
  o~ieh~ isaonmie (DM11                                                                                                           I              I_________      ____  _____ ____ ________
  Hpmene   qIcd 1HG)                       __________                                          12!                     12               121               12~          121   ___
 Mynsly laclia ((ALl                                                                   10  _________       _____                                                        _____
 O.ei tcid (O)                                                       5__   _ _ _ _ _              ___        ___        _ _   _I
 &xiium hyzturate (NaI.     aatZ
  SWium   haaa (KaH. Xhh
 molecute, wveiaht Iao.>CoKoall                                                                                                                                    10.0I            2
                               TOTALI                                    __________                    1     030                             100.0   i00.o                              ___
 FormulatioenLabels -4                          A               B          C               D           E              F                G                     H                K
                                                                                   83

                                TABLE XXV - EMULSION COMPOSITIONS
       Apigenesis Forrnulation concepts                                 Emulsions (0.25% w/w Apigenin)
                                                                    Emulsifying Wax Base            Pernulen Base
                                              Formulation #                         17                     18
                                  Formulation ID: 3530-                             29                     30
        Component                                                                          % w/w
       Apigenin 5.6% / PS80 Concentrate                                                       4.5                 4.5
       Transcutol P                                                                             10                 10
        Methylparaben. NF                                                                    0.17                0.17
        Proovlparaben, NF                                                                    0.03                0.03
        EDTA, USP                                                                             0.1                 0.1
        Purified water                                                                     QSad
        Carbopol 980                                                                          0.4                 0.4
        Emulsifying       wax, NF                                                               12
        Pernulen TR1. NF                                                                                          013
       White petrolatum. NF                                                                      5
       Myristyl lactate                                                                          5               12.2
       Cyclomethicone                                                                            2                 10
       Olevl alcohol                                                                             2                   2
       Cholesterol, NF                                                                            1
       Butylated hydroxytoluene, NF (BHT)                                                      0.1                0.1
       Dilute HC solution, NF                                                           QSad pH 6.5
        10% NaOH Solution
                                                          Total                   100.0                  100.0
          Formulation Labels
Example 16 - In Vitro Irritancy Determination of Apigenin Formulations
The purpose of this study was to compare the acute dermal irritation potential of 5 Apigenin containing
formulations using the Epiderm MTT ET 50 assay. The time required for a test article to reduce tissue viability to
50%, i.e. ET 50 , correlates well with the traditional in vivo rabbit skin irritation test
This study was conducted at MB Research Laboratories (Spinnerstown, PA to conduct the EpiDerm MTT Assay.
EpiDerm tissue was incubated with Api Genesis formulations for 1, 4 and 24 hours (two tissues per time point for
each test article). Triton X-100, 1%, was used as positive control. After incubation, the tissues were rinsed to
remove test articles and cytotoxicity was determined with MTT dye [3-(4, 5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5
diphenyltetrazolium bromide, Thiazolyl blue]. Only viable cells are capable of enzymatic reduction of MTT into a
purple formazan product that is quantitatively measured following extraction from the tissue. Dead cells do not
reduce MTT and thus, this assay allows determination of the effect of test article exposure on tissue viability when
compared to untreated control tissues.
                                                             84

Tissue viability data at the three incubation time points were used to calculate the time required to reduce tissue
viability to 50% (Effective Time, ET 50 ) for each formulation. The ET 50 is well correlated with the traditional
Draize rabbit skin irritation test dermal scores and used to predict irritancy class (Table XXVI).
                           TABLE XXVI - Epiderm MTT ET 5 0 assay                            =
                            - in vivo Draize Irritancy Correlation
                             ETSD (h)         Expected in vivo Irritancy
                            < 0.5            Severe, Probable corrosive
                            0.5 - 4          Moderate
                            4-12             Moderate to Mild
                            12-24            Very Mild
                            > 24             Non-Irritating
 Table XXVII presents the ranking of test articles based on unaudited ET 50 values and their predicted in vivo
 irritancy classification. These formulations ranged from non-irritants to mild-to-moderate irritants.
                          TABLE XXVII - Formulations Irritancy Classification
                          Formulation ID               ET,0 (h)         Predicted in vivo Irritancy
                    (refer to "Formulation                                       Classification
                    Labels" on Tables XXTV
                    and Table XXV)
                    (J) 3530-30                        > 24.0           Non-Irritating
                    (C) 3530-15B                       > 24.0           Non-Irritating
                    (F) 3530-22                         12.6            Very Mild
                    (H) 3530-24                         11.1            Mild to Moderate
                     (B) 3530-14B                      8.0              Mild to Moderate
  The formulations can be ranked, based on ET50 values, as follows:
                                                             85

 [non-irritant] (J) = (C) < F ~ (H) < (B) [mild-to-moderate]
The ET50 for the positive control 1% Triton X-100, was 5.9 hours and was within the
manufacturer's historical range for the assay, which confirmed that the test system is sensitive
to irritants.
In summary, the In Vivo irritancy Determinations of the 5 formulations ranged from non
irritating to mild-to-moderate irritating and are considered to have low acute skin irritation
potential.
                                            *       *        *
         It should be understood that a wide range of changes and modifications could be made
to the embodiments described above. It is therefore intended that the foregoing description
illustrates rather than limits this invention, and that it is the following claims, including all
equivalents, which define this invention.
         All documents and references cited above are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entirety in this application.
         While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment, it
will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents
may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In
addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the
teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore, it is
intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best
mode contemplated for carrying out this invention, but that the invention will include all
embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.
         The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or "comprising" are
used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude any
other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation of
the term is required.
         Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                   86

Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
paragraphs:
1. A composition comprising a concentrate of a planar ring structured organic compound and a
heat stable solubilizing compound, wherein the concentration of said planar ring structured
organic compound in said concentrate is greater than the saturation concentration of said planar
ring structured organic compound in said heat stable solubilizing compound, and wherein said
concentrate is not supersaturated.
2. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound is a
polyphenol.
3. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound is a
flavonoid.
4. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound is
apigenin.
5. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said heat stable solubilizing compound is a
surfactant.
6. The composition as in paragraph 5 wherein said surfactant is a nonionic surfactant.
7. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said heat stable solubilizing compound is a
polysorbate.
8. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound is
apigenin and said heat stable solubilizing compound is polysorbate 80.
9. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said composition further comprises a carrier.
10. The composition as in paragraph 9 wherein said carrier is a water based carrier.
11. The composition as in paragraph 9 wherein said carrier comprises dimethyl sulfoxide and
water.
12. The composition as in paragraph 9 wherein said carrier comprises dimethyl sulfoxide,
hydroxypropyl cellulose and water.
13. The composition as in paragraph 9 wherein said carrier comprises ethanol, propylene glycol
and water.
14. The composition as in paragraph 9 wherein said carrier comprises ethanol, propylene
glycol, water and a gelling agent selected from the group consisting of hydroxyethyl cellulose,
sodium hyaluronate and carbopol.
15. The composition as in paragraph 9 wherein said carrier comprises an oil phase, a surfactant,
and water.
16. The composition as in paragraph 15 wherein said oil phase comprises ethoxydiglycol,

myristyl lactate, cyclomethicone or oleyl alcohol.
17. The composition as in paragraph 9 wherein said carrier is an oil based carrier.
18. The composition as in paragraph 9 wherein said carrier comprises a small-chain alcohol,
ethoxydiglycol, propylene glycol, hexylene glycol, butylene glycol, dipropylene glycol,
glycerin, water, saline, DMSO, isopropyl myristate, mineral oil, a surfactant, or dimethyl
isosorbide.
19. The composition as in paragraph 1 further comprising hyaluronic acid.
20. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said composition is in the form of a
pharmaceutical.
21. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said composition is in the form of a
nutraceutical, cosmeceutical, food or medical food.
22. The composition as in paragraph 1 wherein said composition is in the form of a beverage.
23. A composition comprising:
         i) a planar ring structured organic compound, and
         ii) a heat stable solubilizing compound,
         wherein said composition is formed by heating said planar ring structured organic
compound in the presence of said heat stable solubilizing compound to a temperature such that
said planar ring structured organic compound is dissolved in said heat stable solubilizing
compound.
24. The composition as in paragraph 23 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound
and said heat stable solubilizing compound are heated to a temperature of greater than 100'C.
25. A transdermal patch comprising a substrate having two sides, a first side having disposed
thereon said composition of paragraph 1 and an adhesive, and a second side comprising a
material that is impermeable to said composition and said adhesive.
26. The patch according to paragraph 25 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound
is a flavonoid.
27. A patch for application of a planar ring structured organic compound comprising a substrate
having two sides, a first side having said composition of paragraph 1 contained within a liquid
reservoir separated from an adhesive by a semipermeable membrane.
28. A method of preparing a solubilized planar ring structured organic compound composition
comprising:
         i) mixing said planar ring structured organic compound with a heat stable solubilizing
compound to form a mixture,
         ii) heating said mixture resulting from step (i) to a temperature such that said planar ring

structured organic compound is solubilized to form a concentrate, and
        iii) cooling said concentrate resulting from step (ii).
29. The method as is paragraph 28 wherein step i) and step ii) are performed simultaneously.
30. The method as in paragraph 28 wherein said heat stable solubilizing compound is a
surfactant.
31. The method as in paragraph 30 wherein said surfactant is a nonio ic surfactant
32. The method as in paragraph 31 wherein said nonionic surfactant is a polysorbate.
33. The method as in paragraph 28 wherein said mixture is heated to greater than 80'C.
34. The method as in paragraph 28 wherein said mixture is heated to greater than 100'C.
35. The method as in paragraph 28 further comprising, after step ii) or step iii), adding a carrier.
36. The method as in paragraph 28 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound is a
flavonoid.
37. The method as in paragraph 36 wherein said heat stable solubilizing compound is a
polysorbate and said flavonoid is apigenin.
38. The method as in paragraph 28 further comprising, after step ii) or step iii), adding a small
chain alcohol to said mixture to reduce the viscosity of said mixture.
39. A method of increasing the solubility of a poorly soluble planar ring structured organic
compound composition comprising:
        i) mixing said planar ring structured organic compound with a heat stable solubilizing
compound to form a mixture, and
        ii) heating said mixture resulting from step (i) to a temperature such that the planar ring
structured organic compound is solubilized to form a concentrate.
40. The method as in paragraph 39 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound is
poorly soluble in water.
41. A method of reducing or preventing the effects of sun exposure comprising applying to the
skin of an individual a therapeutically effective amount of a sunscreen formulation comprising
said composition of paragraph 3.
42. A method of treating the effects of sun exposure comprising applying to sun damaged skin
of an individual a therapeutically effective amount of a formulation comprising said
composition of paragraph 3.
43. A method of treating cancer comprising administering to a mammal in need of such
treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a formulation comprising said composition of
paragraph 3.
44. A method of reducing the likelihood of cancer occuring in a mammal comprising
                                                  RO

administering to said mammal a prophylactic amount of a formulation comprising said
composition of paragraph 3.
45. A method of treating acne, alopecia, dermal sensitization and irritation, dry skin (xerosis,
ichthyosis), fungal infections, rosacea or contact dermatosis comprising administering to a
mammal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a formulation
comprising said composition of paragraph 3.
46. A method of treating an autoimmune disease comprising administering to a mammal in
need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a formulation comprising said
composition of paragraph 3.
47. The method as in paragraph 46 wherein said autoimmune disease is selected from the group
consisting of psoriasis, lupus and arthritis.
48. A method of treating a TNFa related disease comprising administering to a mammal in need
of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount a formulation comprising said composition
of paragraph 1 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound is a flavonoid.
49. A method of reducing the likelihood of a TNF related disease comprising administering to a
mammal in need thereof a prophylactic amount of a formulation comprising said composition
of paragraph 1 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound planar ring structured
organic compound is a flavonoid.
50. A method of treating an IL- I P related disease comprising administering to a mammal in
need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a formulation comprising said
composition of paragraph 1 wherein said planar ring structured organic compound is a
flavonoid.
51. A method of reducing the likelihood of a IL- I4 related disease occurring comprising
administering to a mammal in need thereof a prophylactic amount of a formulation comprising
said composition of paragraph 1 wherewin said planar ring structured organic compound is a
flavonoid.
52. A kit for forming a composition adapted for delivery of an active agent, said kit comprising
a first aliquot portion of a concentrate of planar ring structured organic active agent and a heat
stable solubilizing compound, and a second aliquot portion of a carrier, wherein, when mixed,
said first and second aliquot portions form a composition for delivery of said active agent
contained therein.
53. The kit according to paragraph 52, wherein said active agent is a flavonoid and said heat
solubilizing compound is a surfactant.
54. The kit according to paragraph 52, wherein said second aliquot portion comprises a
                                                  on

dermatological, oral, injectable, or aerosol carrier.
55. The kit according to paragraph 52, wherein said active agent is selected from the group
consisting of antibiotics, anesthetics, anti-tumor agents, anti-inflammatory agents, and
antiparasitics.
56. The kit according to paragraph 52, further comprising a double syringe having first and
second syringe barrels which contain said first and second aliquot portions, respectively.
Still further embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
                                                 01

CLAIMS
1.      A composition comprising:
        a concentrate formed by mixing a polyphenol with a non-ionic surfactant, in the absence
of a carrier, to form a mixture, and heating said mixture to a temperature of greater than 150 'C
to form said concentrate, wherein upon cooling to room temperature the concentrate is not
supersaturated, and the concentration of said polyphenol is greater than the saturation
concentration of said polyphenol in said non-ionic surfactant.
2.      The composition as in claim 1, wherein said non-ionic surfactant is a polysorbate.
3.      The composition as in claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising hyaluronic acid.
4.      The composition as in any one of claims I to 3, wherein said polyphenol and said
non-ionic surfactant are heated to a temperature of greater than 170 'C.
5.      The composition as in any one of claims 1 to 4 further comprising a carrier.
6.      The composition as in claim 5, wherein said carrier is a water based carrier.
7.      The composition as in claim 5, wherein said carrier comprises dimethyl sulfoxide and
water.
8.      The composition as in claim 5, wherein said carrier comprises dimethyl sulfoxide,
hydroxypropyl cellulose and water.
9.      The composition as in claim 5, wherein said carrier comprises ethanol, propylene glycol
and water.
10.     The composition as in claim 5, wherein said carrier comprises ethanol, propylene
glycol, water and a gelling agent selected from the group consisting of hydroxyethyl cellulose,
sodium hyaluronate and carbopol.
11.     The composition as in claim 5, wherein said carrier comprises an oil phase, a surfactant,
and water.
12.     The composition as in claim 11, wherein said oil phase comprises ethoxydiglycol,
myristyl lactate, cyclomethicone or oleyl alcohol.
                                                    92

13.     The composition as in claim 5, wherein said carrier is an oil based carrier.
14.     The composition as in claim 5, wherein said carrier comprises an alcohol,
ethoxydiglycol, propylene glycol, hexylene glycol, butylene glycol, dipropylene glycol,
glycerin, water, saline, DMSO, isopropyl myristate, mineral oil, a surfactant, or dimethyl
isosorbide.
15.     The composition as in claim 1, wherein said non-ionic surfactant is polysorbate 13,
polyoxy 20 cetostearyl, or polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil.
16.     The composition as in any one of claims I to 15, wherein said composition is in the
form of a pharmaceutical.
17.     The composition as in any one of claims I to 15, wherein said composition is in the
form of a nutraceutical, cosmeceutical, food or medical food.
18.     The composition as in any one of claims I to 15, wherein said composition is in the
form of a beverage.
19.     The composition as in any one of claims I to 18, wherein said composition is in the
form of a solution or emulsion.
20.     The composition as in any one of claims I to 17, wherein said composition is in the
form of a gelatin capsule or enteric coated capsule.
21.     The composition as in any one of claims I to 15, wherein said composition is in the
form of a liquid, serum, cream, lotion, gel, spray, foam, ointment or cleanser.
22.     The composition as in any one of claims I to 21, further comprising one or more
additive selected from the group consisting of hyaluronic acid, a preservative, a buffer, a
humectant, an anti-inflammatory agent, an emollient, a moisturizer, a thickening agent, and an
analgesic.
Date: 4 January 2018
                                                     93

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

