Abstract
The develop caravan concept can be used on any caravan design or motorhome with
slight alterations to the internal layout. The internal layout ideally will have a kitchen with
island bench on the side that is opening (fig.1). Where the opening is beside a bedroom
ideally there will be a space at the end of the bed where a person can access the decking
(fig.3). All the wall materials are standard caravan materials which could be an aluminium
or fibreglass sandwich and the decking material (internal wall when upright) will be a light
Malibu or similar to give strength and durability. The two side walls are similar to gates
with pin hinges. The decking wall will have at least 6 stands that will support the deck to
the ground being height adjustable. The caravan is fully operational without expanding the
living areas or only expanding some of the area.

Fig. 1  1'         5150
       100 2100    500   800           1550      100
                                                     =25
                                                      400
                                                      600
                                                          2350
                             Skylit800
                                            Pantry
                                                      50
                                                      25
                                                          2000
                Decki ng

                                                 7250
Fig. 3    25 600 800 400     800            1600         600 2400 25
           I                                           II|         If
                                   Skylight                           2425
       i~                                         Frig   Pnr
                         Decking A2350
                                    4700

                              1
                        AUSTRALIA
                      Patents Act 1990
   COMPLETE SPECIFICATION INNOVATION PATENT
              DEVELOP CARAVAN
            (Pop Out Caravan, Doubla or Tripla)
The following statement is a full description of this invention,
  including the best method of performing it known to me:

                                     2
Background of the Invention
[001] A caravan that increases its size, the present invention relates
to a new way of building a caravan so that the owner can have more
space. For caravan owners who want access to the outside
environment without increasing the overall size of the van whilst
towing.
[002] More particularly the invention relates to the ability to swing
out and fold down walls into a decking area and then having an
awning that will make the area fully enclosed background.
[003] Caravan customisation is a fast growing area of interest for
many retirees and holiday enthusiasts. This customisation of a
caravan will allow for a larger area for recreational purposes and will
be of great interest to all ages.
[004] Recently, the development of extendable current caravans
with a push out area in various sizes and shapes have been on the
increase. However this can only give you a marginal larger area to
use in the caravan. These areas are either a dining area or bedroom
area in large with the slide out extension however these extension
caravans suffer many drawbacks in that they only increase the size
of the area by small amount and require regular servicing to make
sure the sliding mechanism does not get caught or jammed. If a
caravan is in any sort of damage that slide out area this becomes a
real problem to repair. Another drawback of these extendable
caravans is that they only create a small walking area where the
position has extended. You don't really get a sense of an openness,
an open area within the caravan after the extension therefore a need
exists for a caravan that can extend its size to almost double its
original size in a low-cost and functional way. A caravan with an
area can be used as a fully open semi enclosed or fully enclosed
area for whatever purpose the owner wishes to use the area for
example barbecue area living area dining area or an extension to the
kitchen meals area or even sleeping area.
A brief summary of the invention and its advantages
[005] A brief summary of the invention the present invention
comprises of a way of lowering a wall and sliding or swinging out to
side walls to double the size of the caravan and then an awning that
can make the area transform from a decking area open to a fully
enclosed area.

                                     3
[006] The wall is lowered by to hinges at the base of the wall. The
internal cladding of this wall is decking material so when it folds down
who creates a deck area the two side walls are located directly
behind the sidewall and can be swing out after the main wall has
been lowered down. Hinged to that main wall is a front wall, once this
one is swung up, the two side walls then swing around clip into the
front wall making it solid and secure.
[007] The original design can be in many sizes of caravan and the
opening of the caravan does not necessarily have to be the full
sidewall it can be part of the sidewall also the invention can be used
to triple the size of a caravan by swinging out both sides of the
caravan and extending both sides of the caravan or leaving the rear
of the caravan and using the same methodology.
A brief description of the drawings
[008] The floor plan shows a very simple living area open kitchen
and a bathroom. The layout comprising of shower kitchen and toilet
with room at the rear of the caravan for a refrigerator and pantry Fig
1. This layout of a simple 5150mm version of the invention, one of
the layouts that could be used
[009] Fig. 2 to illustrate the perspective view looking from the end of
the caravan to show the height of the caravan and the openness of
the floor area between the kitchen and bathroom. Fig 2 swing out
slide walls length dependent on trailer opening required links with
notches the front war height to be 1900 allowing for the warning blind
do have a slow for water run-off and yet still be at standing height
inside the front wall.
[010] Fig 4 shows the side view of the caravan once the wall is
lowered and the two side walls or swing out it also shows how the
sidewalls swing out into place to create an enclosed area and also
shows the awning systems were that's positioned on the side of the
caravan. Fig 4 is a side elevation to show the storage unit which acts
as a windbreaker and can be used for hanging space and the
storage under the caravan and the dimensions of the wall fold down
for the decking.
[011] Fig. 6 shows the storage areas and in particular the hanging
space at the end of their caravan which is unique feature of this test
of this version of the design.

                                      4
Detailed description of the invention
[012] The detailed description of the invention the terminology used
herein is the purpose of describing the particular features of the
invention but not intended to limit the invention.
[013] Related information the wall draw will have a hydraulic devices
to enable the will to be lowered slowly and when then to help put the
wall back into place the morning will have special positions on each
Warwick and clip into as shown in Fig 6.
[014] The overall height of the caravan is higher than the standard
caravan due to the higher floor height which enable storage
underneath and all the electrical and plumbing to be run underneath
the caravan to save money to 4 as a cheaper option and easier to
service
[015] The special hinge system used to pivot the wall into the
decking position is part of this invention and it allows the wall to be
lowered and level with the caravan floor without any gaps. Gas
struts or a coiled spring will assist in the lowering and raising of the
decking wall.
[016] Fig 7 shows an alternative longer caravan model and a
different layout using the same invention to increase the size of the
overall band. [017] In Fig 8 another layout of a 7250mm van which
shows that use of the invention that can make a larger area and key
design changes in the layout
[018] Fig 2 swing out slide wars length dependent on trailer opening
required links with notches the front war height to be 1900 allowing
for the warning blind do have a slope for water run-off and yet still be
at standing height 1900 mm inside the front wall
[019] Fig 2 shows the notches for awning placement the awning can
be placed at different extension lengths to let some light into the
decking area or completely cover the decking area. Fig 2 shows the
shape of a slide out, side wall for the decking and also shows the
dimensions for a swing outside wall design for the decking.
[020] Fig 3 shows the swing out slide wall system which creates a
width of the caravan of an additional 75 mm increasing the overall
width to 2425 millimetres
[021] Fig 5 shows the awning blind extension pull out bar with steel
rod ends to fit into the sidewall notches. Fig 5 shows the window and

                                     5
door layout as a cutaway view and also indicates the steel frame to
support the decking wall and hydraulics struts and hinges.
[022] Fig.10 shows how the external decking wall has a folded front
wall and behind this are two swing out, side walls to completely
enclose the decking area. A detailed drawing showing the side walls
and the front wall hinged to the side decking wall of the caravan how
they sit together when the caravan is packed up ready to travel on
the road total width of 100 mm.
[023] Fig 6 shows a another layout with the bathroom at the end of
the caravan and full decking folding down on one side of the van with
sliding doors at both ends of the van to create the side walls for the
decking
[024] Fig. 9 shows a simple layout of the van with decking folding
out on both sides of the caravan to almost triple the usable space on
both sides walls which swing out are used. Fig. 9 shows the opening
for the decking can be on both sides of the caravan or even the end
of the caravan situated at different positions using the same
methodology of the doors which swing out forming to side walls of
the decking with the front wall of the decking being hinged to the
decking floor as shown in Fig 2.
[025] Fig 8 shows an optional clothes hanging space for the front
storage area.

                                   1
Claim
The claims defining the Develop Caravan are as follows:
1. The innovation can be used in the manufacture of any size
caravan or motorhome to substantially increase the overall its
overall living area size.
2. The innovation create an open or closed deck on one or more
sides of the caravan or motorhome.
3. The Innovation can be made out of standard caravan materials
where the external dick wall and external walls that swing out
complement the external walls of the caravan or motorhome.
4. The Innovation internal walls can be made out of standard
caravan materials to match and compliment the caravan or
motorhomes internal walls.
5. The internal wall which lowers down to form a decking and a
hinged front wall can be clad with standard decking material on a
strengthened aluminium frame to take the weight of up to 20
people.
6. The hinges used on the decking wall to lower and raise the wall
allow the decking wall to slide clear of the floor of the caravan or
motorhome and then swing down to be level with the existing floor
of the caravan or motorhome.
7. The external dimensions of the caravan or motorhome will not be
altered with the innovation so they will still meet Australian
Standards.
8. The walls can swing out or slide out either side of the decking.
9. A locking system consisting of pins unlocked with a key together
with clamps on the corners of the wall will make the sidewall secure
whilst towing or driving.
10. The weight distribution and balance with the extra walls and
framing around an opening side will be counterbalanced with water
tanks petrol tanks refrigerator washing machine and other weighty
items.
11. The swing out doors for the side walls, and the decking wall
being lowered can be motorized.

                                    2
12. The decking wall will hinge from a height determined by The
Wheel Arches which can be lower with smaller diameter wheels and
tyres.
13. The extended area can be covered with an awning or
retractable roof slightly wider than the decking covering the whole
or part of the area.
14. Once the decking is lowered one swing out wall can be remain
closed to give privacy for a bedroom area and leaving the decking
completely open on one side.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
