                                          ABSTRACT
Described herein are compounds and compositions for treating glaucoma and/or reducing
intraocular pressure. Compositions may comprise an isoquinoline compound and a prostaglandin
or a prostaglandin analog. Compounds described herein include those in which an isoquinoline
compound is covalently linked to a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog, and those in which
an isoquinoline compound and a prostaglandin free acid together form a salt.

                                       COMBINATION THERAPY
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001]      This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application SerialNo.
61/787,883, filed March 15, 2013, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
 [0001a]      The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2014228790, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
                                            INTRODUCTION
 [0002]     A number of ocular conditions are caused by, or aggravated by, damage to the optic
nerve head, degeneration of ocular tissues, and/or elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). For
example, "glaucomas" are a group of debilitating eye diseases that are a leading cause of
irreversible blindness in the United States and other developed nations. There is a continuing
need for therapies that control elevated IOP to limit glaucomatous damage without undesirable
side-effects.
                                                SUMMARY
 [0003]      In one aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
        a) a compound according to formula (1):
                                                 N              2
                                    R 1-N  A
                  or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
                 R1 and R 2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and
        C1 -C 4 alkyl, or R1 and R 2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are
        attached to form a ring of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms;
                 A is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2NH-, -CH(Rio)-, -C(CH 3)(Rio)-,
        CH 2CH 2-, -CH(Rio)CH 2-, -CH 2CH 2CH(Rio)-, - CH 2 CH(Rio)-, and -C(CH 3)(Rio)CH 2-;
                  each RIO is independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl,
        alkynyl, amino, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl, any of which may be
        optionally substituted; and
                 XI and X 2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
        hydroxy, halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy,
        sulfonyl, sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl; and
                                                      1

       b) a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
[00041     In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a compound according to formula (I):
                                              PG
                                       r(
                                      Y
                                   B                 HH
                                                                      (1
                                          0N
               or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,wherein:
               Y is selected from the group consisting of alkylene, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl,
       and heterocyclyl, any of which may be optionally substituted;
               B is selected from the group consisting of -NRR 2 , -CH2NR 1 R2 , -CH(Rio)R 2 ,
       CCH3(R13 ) R2, -NHCH(Rio)R 2, -N(CH3)R 2 , -CH 2CH 2R2 , -CH(Rio)CH 2R2 , and
       CH2CH(Rio)R 2;
               R1, R2 and Rio are each independently selected from the group consisting of
       hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amino, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and
       heterocycloalkyl, any of which may be optionally substituted;
               X1 and X2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
       hydroxy, halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy,
       sulfonyl, sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl; and
               PG is the acyl radical of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog.
[0005]     In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a compound of formula (III):
                          R1-     A       NPG                       0
                                                                              (H)
               wherein:
               R, and R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and
       C1-C4 alkyl, or R, and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are
       attached to form a ring of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms;
               A is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2NH-, -CH(Rio)-, -C(CH3)(R 3 )-,
       CH 2 CH 2-, -CH(Rio)CH 2-, -CH 2 CH 2CH(Rio)-, - CH2 CH(Rio)-, and -C(CH3)(Ro)CH2-;
                                                   2

                  each Rio is independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl,
         atkynyl, amino, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl, any of which may be
         optionally substituted;
                  X1 and Xz are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
         hydroxy, halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy,
         sulfonyl, sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl; and
                  PG e is a deprotonated free acid of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog.
[00061       In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(I-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide
hydrochloride; and
         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl
ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2,, isopropyl ester
PGF 3a isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
 [0007}      In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (R)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide
hydrochloride; and
         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl
ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGF1a isopropyl ester, PGF2a, isopropyl ester
PGF3, isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
 [0008]       In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (S)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yi)acetamide
hydrochloride; and
         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl
ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFI isopropyl ester, PGF2a, isopropyl ester
PGF3a isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
 [0009]       In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (rac)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
 dimethylbenzoate dimesylate; and
                                                    3

         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl
ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2, isopropyl ester
PGF3a isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyt ester.
[0010]       In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (R)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- 1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate dimesylate; and
         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl
ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2a, isopropyl ester
PGF3a isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyt ester.
[0011]        In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (S)-4-(3 -amino-1 -(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- 1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate dimesylate; and
         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl
ester, [atanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGF1 , isopropyl ester, PGF 2a, isopropyl ester
PGF3a isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
[0012]        In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (rac)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide; and
         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocioprostenol isopropyl
ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF 2a, isopropyt ester
PGF3 , isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
[00131        In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (R)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide; and
         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl
ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2a, isopropyl ester
PGF3, isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
                                                   4

[0014]       In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising:
         a) (S)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide; and
         b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost,
travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl
ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2,, isopropyl ester
PGF3, isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
[00151       In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a method of treating an ocular disorder
in a subject in need of treatment, comprising administering to the subject a compound or
composition described herein. In some embodiments, the ocular disorder is glaucoma.
[0016]       In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a method of reducing intraocular
pressure in a subject in need thereof, comprising topically administering to an eye of the subject
a a compound or composition described herein.
[0017]       In another aspect, the disclosure may provide compound selected from the group
consisting of:
         a) (R)-4-(3-amino- 1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- 1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate dimesylate;
         b) (S)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- 1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate dimesylate; and
         c) (rac)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate dimesylate.
[0018]        Other aspects and embodiments of the disclosure will become apparent in light of the
following description.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0019]        FIG. I is a graph showing intraocular pressure following administration of
compositions described in Example 4.
[00201        FIG. 2 is a graph showing intraocular pressure following administration of
compositions described in Example 5.
 100211       FIG. 3 is a graph showing intraocular pressure following administration of
compositions described in Example 8.
                                                   5

                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0022]       Compositions that include an isoquinoline compound (e.g., a compound of formula
(I)) and a prostaglandin or prostaglandin analog or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
(e.g., latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol, latanoprostene
bunod, unoprostone, PGF2a or fluprostenol) are described herein. Also described herein are
compounds of formula (I), which include an isoquinoline compound that is covalently linked to
a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog, and compounds of formula (III), which are salts of an
isoquinoline compound and a free acid of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog. Such
compounds and compositions may be effective for treating ocular disorders such as glaucoma,
for example, by lowering intraocular pressure.
[0023]       Before any embodiments of the disclosure are detailed, it is to be understood that the
present disclosure is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the
arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the following
drawings. The disclosure is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being
carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology
used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of
"including," "comprising," or "having" and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the
items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.
Definitions
[0024]       Definitions of specific functional groups and chemical terms are described in more
detail below. For purposes of this disclosure, the chemical elements are identified in accordance
with the Periodic Table of the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 756
Ed., inside cover, and specific functional groups are generally defined as described therein.
Additionally, general principles of organic chemistry, as well as specific functional moieties and
reactivity, are described in Organic Chemistry, Thomas Sorrell, University Science Books,
Sausalito, 1999; Smith and March March 'sAdvanced Organic Chemistry, 5"' Edition, John
Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 2001; Larock, Comprehensive Organic Transformations,VCH
Publishers, Inc., New York, 1989; Carruthers, Some Modern Methods of Organic Synthesis, 3 d
Edition, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1987; the entire contents of each of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
                                                    6

[00251       "Acyl" or carbonyll" refers to the group -C(O)R wherein R is selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, aLkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl,
arylalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl, any of which may be optionally
substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents. For example, when R is alkyl, such a group may
be referred to as an alkylcarbonyl group.
[0026]       "Administering" as used herein refers to administration of the compounds as needed
to achieve a desired effect.
[0027]       "Alkoxy" refers to the group -O-R wherein R is alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalicyl or
heterocyclyl, any of which may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents.
[0028]       "Alkyl" refers to a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon chain, which may be straight or
branched. An alkyl group may have an indicated number of carbon atoms. For example, C-C              12
alkyl refers to an alkyl group having from I to 12 (inclusive) carbon atoms. C-C       4 alkyl refers to
an alkyl group having 1, 2, 3 or 4 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n.
butyl, sec-butyl or tert-butyl. An alkyl group may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or
more substituents.
[00291       "Alkylene" refers to a divalent alkyl group, e.g., -CH 2 -, -CH 2 CH2-, -CH 2CH 2CH- or
-CH 2CH(CH3)CH2 -. An alkyl or alkylene may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more
substituents.
[0030]       "Alkenyl" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain having one or more
double bonds. An alkenyl group may have an indicated number of carbon atoms. For example,
C2 -C 2 alkenyl refers to an alkenyl group having from 2 to 12 (inclusive) carbon atoms. C2-C4
alkenyl refers to an alkenyl group having 2, 3 or 4 carbon atoms. Examples of alkenyl groups
include, but are not limited to, allyl, propenyl, 2-butenyl, 3-hexenyl and 3-octenyl groups. One
of the double bond carbons may optionally be the point of attachment of the alkenyl substituent.
The term "alkenylene" refers to a divalent alkenyl, e.g., -CH=CH-, -CH=CH 2 CHr or
CH=C=CH-. An alkenyl or alkenylene may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more
substituents.
[0031]       The term "alkynyl" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain having one or
more triple bonds. An alkynyl group may have an indicated number of carbon atoms. For
example, C2 -C1 alkynyl refers to an alkynyl group having from 2 to 12 (inclusive) carbon atoms.
C 2 -C4 alkynyl refers to an alkynyl group having 2, 3 or 4 carbon atoms. Examples of alkynyl
                                                    7

groups include, but are not limited to, ethynyl, propargyl, and 3-hexynyl. One of the triple bond
carbons may optionally be the point of attachment of the alkynyl substituent. The term
"alkynylene" refers to a divalent alkynyl, e.g., -C-C- or -CEC-CH-. An alkynyl or alkynylene
may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents.
100321       "Amino" refers to the group -NWR t ' wherein R' and R" are each independently
selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, cyctoalkyl,
heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, arylalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl, or R'
and R', together with the nitrogen to which they are attached, may form a ring. Examples of
amino groups include, but are not limited to, -NH 2, alkylamino groups such as -NHCH 3 ,
NHCH 2CH 3 and -NHCH(CH 3)2 , dialkylamino groups such as -N(CH 3)2 and -N(CH 2 CH 3) 2 , and
arylamino groups such as -NHPh. Examples of cyclic amino groups include, but are not limited
to, aziridinyl, azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperidino, piperazinyl, perhydrodiazepinyl, morpholino,
and thiomorpholino. The groups R' and R" may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more
substituents, or when R' and R" together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a ring,
the ring may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents.
[00331       "AR-1 02" refers to the compound 3-hydroxy-2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)propyl7
((lR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]-thiophen-2-y)-3-hydroxypropyl)-3,5
dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoate. "AR-102 free acid" refers to the compound 7
((1R,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-hydroxypropyl)-3,5
dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoic acid.
[0034]       "Aryl" refers to an aromatic monocyclic, bicyclic, or tricyclic hydrocarbon ring
system, wherein any ring atom capable of substitution can be substituted (e.g., with one or more
substituents). The substituents may be positioned at various locations on an aryl group. For
example, substituents on a phenyt group may be located at an ortho- position, a meta- position,
the para-position, or combinations thereof Examples of aryl groups include, but are not limited
to, phenyl, naphthyl, and anthracenyl.
[0035]       "Arylalkyl" refers to an alkyl group in which an alkyl hydrogen atom is replaced with
an aryl group. Arylaikyl includes groups in which more than one hydrogen atom has been
replaced with an aryl group. Examples of arylalkyl groups include but are not limited to benzyl,
2-phenylethyl, 3-phenylpropyl, 9-fluorenyl, benzhydryl, and trityl groups. Arylalkyl groups can
                                                    8

be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents on either the alkyl portion or the
aryl portion of the arylalkyl group.
[00361       "Aryloxy" refers to the group -Q-R wherein R is aryl or heteroaryl, either of which
may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents.
[0037]       "Buffer" or "buffer system" refers to a compound or combination of compounds that
provide a buffering system in solution that exhibits buffering capacity, that is, the capacity to
neutralize, within limits, either acids or bases with relatively little or no change in the original
pH. The term "buffering capacity" is defined to mean the millimoles (mM) of strong acid or base
(or respectively, hydrogen or hydroxide ions) required to change the pH by one unit when added
to one liter (a standard unit) of the buffer solution. The buffer capacity will depend on the type
and concentration of the buffer components.
[0038]       "Carboxyl" refers to the group -C(=O)OR, wherein R is selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl,
arylalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl any of which may be optionally
substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents.
[00391       "Carbonylamino" or "amido" refers to the group -C(O)NR'R" wherein R! and R" are
independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl,
cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, arylalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl and
heterocyclylalkyl, or R' and R", together with the nitrogen to which they are attached, may form a
ring. The groups R' and R' may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents, or
when R' and R" together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a ring, the ring may
be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents.
[0040]       "Cycloalkyl" refers to nonaromatic, saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic,
bicyclic, tricyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon groups. Cycloalkyl groups may include about 3 to
about 12 carbon atoms. For example, monocyclic cycloalkyl groups may include 3 to 10 carbon
atoms, e.g., 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 carbon atoms. Bicyclic carbocyclic groups contain 8 to 12 carbon
atoms, e.g., 9 or 10 carbon atoms. Any ring atom can be substituted (e.g., with one or more
substituents). Cycloalkyl groups include fused, spiro, and bridged bicyclic ring systems.
Examples of cycloalkyl groups include, but are not limited to, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl,
cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, cyclohexadienyl, methylcyclohexyl, adamantyl,
norbornyl and norbornenyl.
                                                    9

[00411       "Cycloalkylalkyl", as used herein, refers to an alkyl group substituted with a
cycloalkyl group.
[0042]       "Excipient" refers to physiologically compatible additives useful in preparation of a
pharmaceutical composition. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and excipients
can, for example, be found in Remington Pharmaceutical Science, 16t Ed.
[0043]       "Haloalkyl" as used herein refers to an alkyl group in which one or more hydrogen
atoms are replaced with a halogen, and includes alkyl moieties in which all hydrogens have been
replaced with halogens (e.g., perfluoroalkyl such as CF 3).
[0044]       "Halogen" or "halo" refers to fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo moieties.
[00451       "Heteroalkyl" refers to an alkyl group, as defined herein, wherein at least one carbon
atom of the alkyl group is replaced with a heteroatom. Suitable heteroalkyl groups include, but
are not limited to, methoxymethyl (-CH 2-0-CH3).
[0046]       "Heteroaryl" or "heteroaromatic" refers to an aromatic monocyclic, bicyclic or
tricyclic ring having one or more heteroatoms. For example a heteroaryl group may be an
aromatic 5-8 membered monocyclic ring having 1-4 heteroatoms, an 8-12 membered bicyclic
ring having 1-6 heteroatoms, or an 11-14 membered tricyclic ring system having 1-9
heteroatoms. Heteroaryl groups can contain fused rings, which are rings that share one or more
common atoms. Any ring atom capable of substitution can be substituted (e.g., with one or more
substituents). Examples of heteroaryl groups include, but are not limited to, tetrazoylyl,
triazolyl, thienyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, purinyl, pyrimidyl, pyridyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl,
pyrrolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, furanyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl,
quinoxalinyl, quinazolinyl, cinnolinyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, indolizinyl, indazolyl, benzimidazolyl,
phthalazinyl, pteridinyl, carbazolyl, carbolinyl, phenanthridinyl, acridinyl, phenanthrolinyl,
phenazinyl and naphthyridinyl.
[0047]       The term "heteroarylalkyl", as used herein, refers to an alkyl group substituted with a
heteroaryl group.
[0048]       "Heteroatom" refers to an atom other than carbon in the ring of a heterocyclic group
or a heteroaromatic group or the chain of a heteroalkyl group. For example, heteroatoms may be
selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, oxygen, silicon, phosphorus and sulfur.
Particularly suitable heteroatoms are nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. Groups containing more than
one heteroatom may contain different heteroatoms.
                                                    10

[0049]      "Heterocyclyl" or "heterocycloalkyl" refers to a nonaromatic, saturated or partially
unsaturated hydrocarbon ring system containing at least one heteroatom. Heterocyclyl groups
may include about 3 to about 12 member atoms. For example, monocyclic cycloalkyl groups
may include 3 to 10 member atoms, e.g., 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms. Bicyclic carbocyclic
groups contain 8 to 12 member atoms, e.g., 9 or 10 member atoms. Any ring atom capable of
substitution can be substituted (e.g., with one or more substituents). Heterocyclyl groups include
fused, spiro, and bridged bicyclic ring systems. Examples of heterocyclyl groups include, but are
not limited to, epoxy, tetrahydrofuranyl, homopiperidinyl, tetrahydrothienyl, tetrahydropyranyl,
piperidinyl, piperazinyl, morphotinyl, pyrrolinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, indolinyl,
tetrahydropyridinyl, dihydropyran, thianthrene, pyran, benzopyran, xanthene, phenoxathiin,
phenothiazinyl, furazanyl, lactones, lactams such as azetidinones and pyrrolidinones, sultams,
sultones, and the like.
[0050]      The term "heterocyclylalkyl" or "heterocycloalkylalkyl", as used herein, refers to an
alkyl group substituted with a heterocyclyl group.
[0051]      "Hydroxy" or "hydroxyl" refers to the group -OH.
[0052]      "Linker" means a chain of n member atoms where n is an integer from I to 4.
[0053]      "Member atom" means a carbon, nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur atom. Member atoms
may be substituted up to their normal valence.
[0054]      The term "mercapto" or "thiol" refers to an -SH radical. The term "thioalkoxy" or
"thioether" refers to an -S-alkyl radical. The term "thioaryloxy" refers to an -S-aryl radical.
[0055]      The term "ocular disorder" as used herein includes, but is not limited to, glaucoma,
allergy, cancers of the eye, neurodegenerative diseases of the eye, dry eye, and corneal epithelial
damage. A "method of treating an ocular disorder" may refer to a method of treating glaucoma,
allergy, cancers of the eye, neurodegenerative diseases of the eye, dry eye, and corneal epithelial
damage, or may refer to a method of preserving retinal ganglion cells.
[00561      The term "oxo" refers to an oxygen atom, which forms a carbonyl when attached to
carbon, an N-oxide when attached to nitrogen, and a sulfoxide or sutfone when attached to
sulfur. The term "thioxo" refers to a sulfur atom, which forms a thiocarbonyl when attached to
carbon.
[00571      "Phosphonate" refers to -P(O)(OR) 2, wherein each R is independently selected from
the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl,
                                                  11

arylalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl, each of which may be
optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents.
[0058]      A "prostaglandin" refers to any compound having a prostanoic acid skeleton:
                                         7        5       3       1
                                    9                         2CO     2H
                            10               14       16     16         20
                                     12 13        16      17      19
[0059]      A "prostaglandin analog" refers to a compound that has the potential to bind to a
prostaglandin receptor. Prostaglandin analogs include protected prostaglandins or prostaglandin
prodrugs, e.g. prostaglandins with esters or amides at the C1, C9, CI1 and/or C15 positions.
[0060]       "Prostaglandin free acid" refers to a prostaglandin or prostaglandin analog that has a
carboxylic acid moiety at the C1 position.
[0061]        "Prostaglandin F analog," "PGF analog" or "analog of PGF 2 2' refers to a compound,
generally structurally similar to naturally occurring PGF 2a, which has the potential to bind to and
activate a prostaglandin F-type receptor. F-type receptors include, but are not limited to the FP
receptor.
[0062]       "Prostaglandin E analog," "PGE analog," "analog of PGE2 " or "analog of PGE1 "
refers to a compound, generally structurally similar to naturally occurring PGE 2 or PGE1 , which
has the potential to bind to and activate a prostaglandin E-type receptor. E-type receptors
include, but are not limited to the EP1, EP2, EP3 and EP4 receptors.
[0063]       "Prostaglandin D analog," "PGD analog" or "analog of PGD2" refers to a compound,
generally structurally similar to naturally occurring PGD 2, which has the potential to bind to and
activate a prostaglandin D-type receptor. D-type receptors include, but are not limited to the
DP1 and DP2 receptors.
[00641       "Ring" means a collection of member atoms that are cyclic. Rings may be
carbocyclic, aromatic, or heterocyclic or heteroaromatic, and may be substituted or
unsubstituted, and may be saturated or unsaturated. Ring junctions with the main chain may be
fused or spirocyclic. Rings may be monocyclic or bicyclic. Rings contain at least 3 member
atoms and at most 12 member atoms. Monocyclic rings may contain 3 to 10 member atoms and
bicyclic rings may contain from 8 to 12 member atoms. Bicyclic rings themselves may be fused
                                                   12

or spirocyclic. Rings may be optionally substituted or unsubstituted, e.g., with one or more
substituents.
[0065]       "ROCKi" as used herein refers to an inhibitor of a Rho-associated protein kinase
(ROCK).
[0066]       "Substituent" refers to a group "substituted" on a group such as an alkyl, alkylene,
alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, aryl, arylalkyl,
heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl group, at any substitutable atom of that group. Suitable substituents
include, without limitation: acyl, alkoxy, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amino, aryl, arylalkyl,
carbonylamino, carboxy, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, cyano, halo, haloalkyl, heteroalkyl,
heteroaryl, heteroarylalkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, hydroxy, nitro, oxo (e.g., C=0),
phosphonate, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, sulfonate, sulfonamido, thioamido, thiol, thioalkyl, thioxo (e.g.,
C=S), and ureido. In embodiments, substituents on a group are independently any one single, or
any combination of the aforementioned substituents. In embodiments, a substituent may itself be
substituted with any one of the above substituents.
[0067]       The above substituents may be abbreviated herein, for example, the abbreviations Me,
Et, Ph, Bn and Ac represent methyl, ethyl, phenyl, benzyl and acetyl respectively. A more
comprehensive list of the abbreviations used by organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art
appears in the first issue of each volume of the Journal of Organic Chemistry; this list is typically
presented in a table entitled Standard List of Abbreviations. The abbreviations contained in said
list, and all abbreviations used by organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art, are hereby
incorporated by reference.
 [0068]      "Sulfinyl" refers to a -S(=0)R group, wherein R is selected from the group consisting
of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryt, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, arytalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl,
heteroarylalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl, any of which may be optionally substituted (e.g., with one
or more substituents).
 [00691      "Sulfonic acid" and "sulfonate" refer to -S(0) 2OH and -S(O)20- groups respectively
 10070]      "Sulfonyl" refers to a -S(0)2R group, wherein R is selected from the group consisting
of hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, arylalkyl,
cycloalkylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl, any of which may be optionally
substituted (e.g., with one or more substituents).
                                                   13

[0071]      "Sulfonamido" refers to a -S(0)2NR'R" group wherein R' and R" are independently
selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, cycloalkyl,
heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, arylalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heteroarytalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl, any of
which may be optionally substituted (e.g., with one or more substituents).
[0072]      "Therapeutically effective amount" refers to a dosage of the compounds or
compositions effective for influencing, reducing or inhibiting the activity of or preventing
activation of a kinase. This term as used herein may also refer to an amount effective at bringing
about a desired in vivo effect in an animal, preferably, a human, such as reduction in intraocular
pressure.
[0073]      "Thioalkyl" refers to the group -S-alkyl.
[0074]      "Thioamido" refers to -C(S)NR'R" wherein R' and R" are independently selected
from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl,
heteroaryl, arylalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl, or R' and R",
together with the nitrogen to which they are attached, may form a ring. The groups R' and R"
may be optionally substituted, e.g., with one or more substituents, or when R' and R" together
with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a ring, the ring may be optionally substituted,
e.g., with one or more substituents.
[00751      "Treat" or "treating" as used herein refers to administering a regimen to the subject,
e.g., the administration a compound or composition described herein, such that the disorder or at
least one symptom of the disorder is healed, alleviated, relieved, altered, remedied, ameliorated,
and/or improved. Treating includes administering an amount effective to alleviate, relieve, alter,
remedy, ameliorate, improve and/or affect the disorder or the symptoms of the disorder. The
treatment may inhibit deterioration or worsening of a symptom of a disorder.
[0076]      "Ureido" refers to -N(R)C(O)NR'R", wherein each R, R' and R" is independently
selected from the group consisting selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl,
alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, arylalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl,
heteroarylalkyl and heterocyclylalkyl, any of which may be optionally substituted (e.g., with one
or more substituents).
[00771      Where substituent groups are specified by their conventional chemical formulae,
written from left to right, they optionally encompass substituents resulting from writing the
structure from right to left, e.g., -CH 2NH- optionally also recites -NHCH2 -. While certain lists of
                                                  14

substituent groups include a group shown in both orientations, it should be expressly understood
that any substituent group written in a certain direction (e.g., left to right) also encompasses the
same group in the other direction (e.g.,. right to left).
[0078]      In accordance with a convention used in the art, the group:
is used in structural formulas herein to depict a bond that is the point of attachment of the moiety
or substituent to the core or backbone structure.
[0079]      For compounds described herein, groups and substituents thereof are to be selected in
accordance with permitted valence of the atoms and the substituents, such that the selections and
substitutions result in a stable compound, e.g., which does not spontaneously undergo
transformation such as by rearrangement, cyclization, elimination, etc.
[00801      It specifically is understood that any numerical range recited herein includes all
values from the lower value to the upper value. For example, if a concentration range is stated as
1%to 50%, it is intended that values such as 2% to 40%, 10% to 30%, or 1%to 3%, etc., are
expressly enumerated in this specification. These are only examples of what is specifically
intended, and all possible combinations of numerical values between and including the lowest
value and the highest value enumerated are to be considered to be expressly stated in this
application.
[00811      All percentages, ratios, and proportions used herein are percent by weight per volume
(% wt/vol or w/v) unless otherwise specified.
Compounds
[0082]      Compounds that may be used in compositions described herein include isoquinoline
compounds. Such compounds and the compositions including them may have kinase inhibitory
activity and thus may be useful in influencing or inhibiting the action of kinases, and in treatment
and/or prevention of diseases or conditions influenced by kinases. Exemplary kinases that may
be influenced include, but are not limited to, ROCK-I, ROCK-I, PKA, PKC, CAM Kinases,
GRK-2, GRK-3, GRK-5 or GRK-6. For example, the kinase inhibited may be a Rho-associated
protein kinase (ROCK).
[0083]      Isoquinoline compounds that may be used in compositions and methods described
herein include compounds of formula (1):
                                                   15

                                                H
                                  R1----        N                 2
                                         Rl2 UX
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        Ri and R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and CI-C4
alkyl, or R1 and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached to form a
ring of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms;
        A is selected from the group consisting of -CH2NH-, -CH(R13 )-, -C(CH 3)(Ri)-,
CH 2CH2 -, -CH(Rio)CH 2 -, -CH 2CH 2CH(Rio)-, - CH 2 CH(Rio)-, and -C(CH3)(Rio)CH 2-;
        each Rio is independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
amino, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl, any of which may be optionally
substituted; and
        X, and X2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy,
halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, sulfonyl,
sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl.
[00841      In some embodiments of formula (I), X, is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, R, is alkyl (e.g.,
methyl), Rz is alkyl (e.g., methyl), A is -CH(Rio)-, and Rio is aryl (e.g., phenyl).
[0085]      In some embodiments of formula (I), Xi is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, R1 and R2
together form a heterocyclyl ring, A is -CH(Rio)-, and Rio is alkyl.
 [0086]     In some embodiments of formula (I), X1 and X2 are hydrogen, Ri is alkyl (e.g.,
methyl), and R2 is alkyl (e.g., methyl), A is -CH(Rio)-, and RIO is heteroaryl (e.g., thienyl).
 [0087]     In some embodiments of formula (I), X1 and X 2 are hydrogen, R, is hydrogen, and R2
is hydrogen, A is -CH 2CH(RIO)-, and Rio is a substituted aryl group.
 [0088]     In some embodiments of formula (I), X1 is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, Ri is alkyl (e.g.,
methyl), R2 is alkyt (e.g., methyl), A is -CH(R10)-, and Rio is heteroaryl (e.g., thienyl).
 [0089]     In some embodiments of formula (1), X, and X2 are hydrogen, Ri is alkyl (e.g.,
methyl), and R2 is hydrogen, A is -CH(Ro)-, and RIO is heteroaryl (e.g., thienyl).
 [00901     Isoquinoline compounds that may be used in compositions and methods described
herein include compounds of formula (Ia) which has a tautomeric form, also shown here for
clarification purposes:
                                                 16

                                          H
                                          N
                          R1-N                                 (Ia)
                               R2     0          x     AN
                                                      OH
                                      R1I
                                          N       N     N
                          R 1-N                                  (Ia tautomer)
                                R2    0                   NH
                                                       0
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        Ri and R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C1 -C4
alkyl, or R1 and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached to form a
ring of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms; and
        RIO is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amino, aryl,
heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl, any of which may be optionally substituted.
[0091)      In some embodiments, Rio is aryl (e.g., phenyl). In some embodiments, Rio is
heteroaryl (e.g., thienyl). In some embodiments, R1 and R2 are independently selected from the
group consisting of hydrogen and methyl, or R1 and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen to
which they are attached to form a heterocyclyl ring (e.g., pyrrolidone or piperidine).
[00921      Isoquinoline compounds that may be used in compositions and methods described
herein include compounds of formula (Ib):
                                   R1     R10
                                   II           H
                                              R0N                      (Ib)
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        Ri and R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and CI-C 4
alkyl, or R, and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached to form a
ring of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms; and
        Rio is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amino, aryl,
heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl, any of which may be optionally substituted.
                                                    17

[0093]       In some embodiments, Rio is aryl (e.g., phenyl). In some embodiments, Rio is aryl
(e.g., phenyl) substituted with -CH 2 OC(O)-R, wherein Ra is optionally substituted aryl (e.g.,
phenyl, e.g., 2,4-dimethylphenyl). In some embodiments, Rio is optionally substituted phenyl
(e.g., 4-chlorophenyl). In some embodiments, Rio is aryl (e.g., phenyl) substituted with -CH 2
OC(O)-NH-Rb, wherein Rbis optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, e.g., 2-chlorophenyl or 4
chlorophenyl or 4-methoxyphenyl) or wherein R is optionally substituted alkyl (e.g. C 1.4 alkyl,
such as butyl). In some embodiments, Ri and R2 are independently selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen and methyl, or R1 and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen to which
they are attached to form a heterocyclyl ring (e.g., pyrrolidone or piperidine).
[0094]       In embodiments, the compound of formula (I) may be selected from the group
consisting of
         (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide;
         (R)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(I-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide;
         (S)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide;
         (rac)-4-(3 -amino-1 -(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- I-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate;
         (R)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate; and
         (S)-4-(3 -amino-1 -(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- 1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate,
         (rac)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide,
         (R)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide,
         (S)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide,
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00951       Compounds of formula (I) may be synthesized by methods known in the art. For
example, compounds may be synthesized using methods described in U.S. Patent Publication
No. 2009/0186917, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0096]       Also disclosed herein are compounds in which an isoquinoline compound is
covalently linked to a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog. Such compounds include
compounds of formula (II):
                                                  18

                                    r     PG
                                          H
                                 B        N
                                       0                   N
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        Y is selected from the group consisting of alkylene, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, and
heterocyclyl, any of which may be optionally substituted;
        B is selected from the group consisting of -NRiR 2 , -CH2NR 1 R 2, -CH(Rio)R 2 , -CCH3(Rio)
R 2, -NHCH(Rio)R 2, -N(CH 3)R 2, -CH 2CH 2R 2, -CH(R 10 )CH 2R 2 , and -CH 2CH(Rio)R 2;
        R1 , R2 and Ric are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amino, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl, any of which
may be optionally substituted;
        X1 and X2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy,
halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, sulfonyl,
sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl; and
        PG is the acyl radical of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog.
[0097]       An "acyl radical of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog" refers to a
prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog in which the C1 position has the group -C(O)-. For
example, acyl radicals of latanoprost, bimatoprost and travoprost are illustrated below:
Acyl radical of bimatoprost:                    Acyl radical of travoprost:
                          0                                              0
 HO-                                            Hg
                H                               HO             HO                   CF3
                                      Acyl radical of latanoprost:
                                                   19

                                                             0
                                    HO
                                   HOJ
                                                 HO
[00981       In some embodiments of formula (H), X1 and X 2 are hydrogen, B is -CH 2NRiR 2, R 1
is alkyl (e.g., methyl), R2 is alkyl (e.g., methyl), and PG is the acyl radical of latanoprost.
[0099]       In some embodiments of formula (II), X1 and X 2 are hydrogen, B is -CH 2NR1R 2, R,
and R2 are hydrogen, and PG is the acyl radical of latanoprost.
[00100]      In some embodiments of formula (II), X, is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, B is
CH 2NR1R 2 , R1 and R2 are hydrogen, and PG is the acyl radical of latanoprost.
[00101]      In some embodiments of formula (II), X1 is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, B is -NR1R 2,
R, is hydrogen, R2 is hydrogen, and PG is the acyl radical of travoprost.
[001021      In some embodiments of formula (II), X1 is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, B is -NRiR 2, R
is alkyl (e.g., methyl), R2 is alkyl (e.g., methyl), and PG is the acyl radical of latanoprost.
[001031      In some embodiments of formula (II),), X1 and X2 are hydrogen, B is -CH 2NR1 R 2,
R, is hydrogen, R 2 is hydrogen, and PG is the acyl radical of travoprost.
[001041      In some embodiments of formula (II), Xi and X2 are hydrogen, B is -CH 2NRIR 2 , R,
is hydrogen, R2 is hydrogen, and PG is the acyl radical of bimatoprost.
[00105]      In some embodiments of formula (II), PG is the acyl radical of latanoprost,
bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone,
PGF2a or fluprostenol.
 [00106]     Compounds of formula (II) may be synthesized according a method similar to that
shown below in Scheme 1, wherein each R is independently a protecting group. One skilled in
the art will appreciate that the starting protected prostaglandin free acid and isoquinoline can be
prepared using known methods; see, for example, Protective Groups in OrganicSynthesis (T.
Green and P. Wuts; 3rd Edition; John Wiley and Sons, 1999). Step (a) may be conducted in a
suitable solvent and in the presence of a suitable coupling agent, such as a carbodiimide.
Following coupling in step (a), the product may be deprotected in step (b) using methods
                                                    20

particular to the protecting groups that were used. It will be noted that while Scheme 1 illustrates
coupling of latanoprost free acid and a specific isoquinoline compound, one skilled in the art will
appreciate that such a general synthesis scheme could be applied to any prostaglandin free acid
and isoquinoline compound bearing a suitably reactive functional group such as a hydroxy
group, amine group, or the like. Specific syntheses including protecting and deprotecting steps
are illustrated in the Examples.
Scheme 1.
                     +H                  (aR                           (b)      0                  H
                                                                 8R                        H
  d                    R
[00107]      Also disclosed herein are compounds in which an isoquinoline compound and a
prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog together form a salt. Such compounds include
compounds of formula (III):
[00108]      The compounds that may be used in compositions and methods described herein also
include salts of isoquinoline compounds and prostaglandin free acids. Such compounds include
compounds of formula (III):
                                          H
                               HA         N        X,     X2         e
                            R-N "A        N   I                   PGP         (HI)
         wherein:
         R1 and R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C1-C4
alkyl, or R1 and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached to form a
ring of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms;
         A is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2NH-, -CH(Rio)-, -C(CH 3)(Rio)-,
CH2 CH 2 -, -CH(Rio)CH 2 -, -CH 2 CH 2 CH(Rio)-, - CH 2 CH(Ro)-, and -C(CH3)(Rio)CH 2-;
         each Rio is independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
amino, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl, any of which may be optionally
substituted;
                                                  21

         X, and X2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy,
halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, sulfonyl,
sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl; and
         PG e is a deprotonated free acid of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog.
[00109]     A "deprotonated free acid of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog" refers to a
prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog in which the C1 position has the group -C(0)0-. For
example, deprotonated free acids of latanoprost, bimatoprost and travoprost are illustrated below:
Deprotonated bimatoprost free acid:              Deprotonated travoprost free acid:
                                  0                                               0
                                      0                   H
        Hg                                             HO
        HO                                             HO            H                       CF3
                       HO                                            H6
                                   Deprotonated latanoprost free acid:
                                                            0
                                    Hq
                                    HH
                                                  H6U
[00110]      In some embodiments of formula (III), Xi is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, R 1 is alkyl
(e.g., methyl), R2 is alkyl (e.g., methyl), A is -CH(Rio)-, and Rio is aryl (e.g., phenyl).
[001111      In some embodiments of formula (III), X1 is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, R1 and R2
together form a heterocyclyl ring, A is -CH(Rio)-, and Rio is alkyL.
[001121      In some embodiments of formula (III), Xi and X2 are hydrogen, R1 is aikyl (e.g.,
methyl), and R2 is alkyl (e.g., methyl), A is -CH(Rio)-, and R1 ois heteroaryl (e.g., thienyl).
[00113]      In some embodiments of formula (III), X, and X2 are hydrogen, R, is hydrogen, and
R 2 is hydrogen, A is -CH 2CH(Ro)-, and RIO is a substituted aryl group.
[00114]      In some embodiments of formula (III), X is hydrogen, X2 is hydroxy, R1 is alkyl
(e.g., methyl), R2 is alkyl (e.g., methyl), A is -CH(Rio)-, and RIO is heteroaryl (e.g., thienyl).
                                                   22

[00115]       In some embodiments of formula (III), X and X2 are hydrogen, R, is alkyl (e.g.,
methyl), and R2 is hydrogen, A is -CH(Rio)-, and RIO is heteroaryl (e.g., thienyl).
[00116]       In some embodiments of formula (III), PG e is a deprotonated free acid of
latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, latanoprostene bunod, or unoprostone.
In some embodiments of formula (III), PG e is the deprotonated form of cloprostenol, 13,14
dihydrocloprostenol, PGE, PGFia, PGF 2a, PGF 3, or fluprostenol,
[00117]       Compounds of formula (III) may be synthesized by combining a prostaglandin free
acid and an isoquinoline compound, e.g., in a suitable solvent. The starting materials may be
combined in an approximately 1:1 ratio, The mixture may be heated to promote dissolution of
the starting materials if necessary. The solvent can then be removed to provide the salt
compound.
Prostaglandins and Prostaglandin Analogs
[00118]       Compositions described herein may include a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin
analog.
[00119]       In some embodiments, a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog may comprise a
compound of formula (IV):
                              R3 0
                                                      A %.- o B11. Z
                                                              BZ
                              R 40A
                                               R2   OR 5              (IV)
         or an optical isomer, diastereomer or enantiomer thereof, wherein:
         the dashed lines independently indicate the presence or absence of a bond;
         A and B are independently -(CRaRl),      wherein each R and Rb is independently
hydrogen or C1 -C alkyl, and n is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4;
         R1 is -C(O)OR , -CONHR4 , -C(O)NHOH, -CH 2 OH, -S(0)2R" or -C(O)NHS(O) 2R;
         R2 is hydrogen or C1 -C6 alkyl;
         R 3, R4 and R5 are independently selected from hydrogen and an alcohol protecting group;
         Y is a bond, -0-, -S-, -S(0), -S02-, -C(R) 2-, -CR=CR'-, -NR-, or -C=C-;
         Z is hydrogen, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl or heteroaryl;
                                                  23

         R is selected from hydrogen, C-C     6 alkyl, C-C 6 heteroalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl
and heterocyclyl;
         Rd, Re and R are independently selected from C-Q alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl;
         R9, R and R are independently selected from hydrogen, C-C        6 alkyl, alkoxy and
hydroxy; and
         Ri is hydrogen or C -C6 alkyl.
[00120]       Suitably, no carbon atom in a compound of formula (IV) has two or more
heteroatoms attached to it unless the two or more heteroatoms are member atoms in a
heteroaromatic ring system.
[00121]      In formula (IV), the relative stereochemistry at C8, C9, and C12 is as specified. That
is, the bond between C7 and C8 is in the a orientation, the alcohol (protected or unprotected) at
C9 is in the a orientation, and the bond between C12 and C13 is in the p orientation. The
invention also includes optical isomers, diastereomers and enantiomers of the above structure,
At all stereocenters where stereochemistry is not defined (e.g. C1I and C15), both epimers are
envisioned. In some embodiments, stereochemistry at all such stereocenters of the invention
mimic that of naturally occuning PGF2 ,.
[00122]       In some embodiments, Q1 is either H or an alcohol protecting group and Q2 and Q3
are alcohol protecting groups. In other embodiments, Q1, Q2, and Q3 are all alcohol protecting
groups and may be different alcohol protecting groups and may be the same alcohol protecting
group.
[00123]       Exemplary prostaglandins and prostaglandin analogs include latanoprost,
bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol and esters thereof, 13,14
dihydrocloprostenol and esters thereof, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, POEi and esters
thereof, PGFIa and esters thereof, PGF2a and esters thereof, PGFja and esters thereof, and
fluprostenol and esters thereof.
[00124]       In some embodiments, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a prostaglandin or
prostaglandin analog is used. For example, the salt may be an amino acid salt of a prostaglandin,
e.g. arginine. In some embodiments, the prostaglandin or prostaglandin analog may be
latanoprost arginine salt.
                                                   24

[00125]     Other prostaglandins and related compounds suitable for use in compositions of the
disclosure include, but are not limited to, those found in the following patents and patent
applications, which are incorporated herein by reference.
[00126]     1. 5-Thia-omega substituted phenyl-prostaglandin E derivatives, process for
producing the same and drugs containing the same as the active ingredient. WO 00/3980.
[00127]     2. Aromatic C16 - C20 - substituted tetrahydro prostaglandins useful as FP agonists
WO 99/12895; US 5977173, Nov. 2,1999.
[001281     3. Aromatic C16-C20-substituted tetrahydro prostaglandins useful as FP agonists
WO 99/12898.
1001291     4, Aromatic C16-C20- substituted tetrahydro prostaglandins useful as FP agonists.
WO 99/12896, US 6048895 Apr. 11, 2000.
[00130]     5. Prostaglandins of the F series US 5770759. Jun. 23 1998.
[00131]     6. EP2-receptor agonists as neuroprotective agents for the eye WO 99/26629.
[00132]     7. Prostaglandin derivatives for the treatment of glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
US6030999, Feb. 29 2000.
[00133]     8, Cyclopentane heptan(ene)oic acid, 2-heteroarylalkenyl derivatives as therapeutic
agents WO 99/25358; US 6037364 Mar. 14 2000.
[00134]     9. Use of cloprostenol and fluprostenol analogues to treat glaucoma and ocular
hypertension US 5889052, Mar. 30 1999.
[00135]     10. Cis-delta-4- analogs of prostaglandins as ocular hypotensives. WO 98/21182; US
5994397 Nov. 30, 1999.
[001361     11. Tetrahydrofuran analogs of prostaglandins as ocular hypotensives. WO
98/57930; US-6,025,392 Mar. 14, 2000.
[00137]     12. Conformationally rigid aryl- or heteroaryl prostaglandins for use in glaucoma
therapy. WO 98/21180.
[001381     13. Keto-substituted tetrahydrofuran analogs of prostaglandins as ocular hypotensives
WO 98/57930.
[00139]     14. 13-oxa prostaglandins for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension WO
99/32441.
[00140]     15. 13-Thia prostaglandins for use in glaucoma therapy WO 98/39293.
                                                  25

[001411     16. 15-Ketal prostaglandins for the treatment of glaucoma or ocular hypertension WO
98/20881.
[00142]     17. 9-Oxa prostaglandin analogs as ocular hypotensives. WO 98/57942.
[00143]     18. 15-Fluoro prostaglandins as ocular hypotensives WO 98/21181.
[00144]     19. l1 -Halo prostaglandins for the treatment of glaucoma or ocular hypertension WO
98/20880.
[00145]     20. Use of 9-deoxy prostaglandin derivatives to treat glaucoma WO 96/10407.
[00146]     21. Prostaglandin product WO 00/3736.
[001471     22. Substituted tetrahydrofuran analogs of prostaglandins as ocular hypotensives WO
97/23223.
[001481     23. EP2-receptor agonists as agents for lowering intraocular pressure WO 95/19964.
[001491     24. Prostaglandin derivatives devoid of side-effects for the treatment of glaucoma.
WO 99/02165.
[00150]     25. 8-Iso prostaglandins for glaucoma therapy WO 98/50024; US 6037368 Mar. 14
2000.
[00151]     26. Fluorinated prostaglandin derivatives and medicines WO 98/12175.
        Isomers
[001521     Compounds described herein (e.g., compounds of formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (III) and
(IV)) may exist in one or more particular geometric, optical, enantiomeric, diastereomeric,
epimeric, atropic, stereoisomer, tautomeric, conformational, or anomeric forms, including but not
limited to, cis- and trans-forms; E- and Z-forms; c-, t-, and r- forms; endo- and exo-forms; R-, S-,
and meso-forms; D- and L-forms; d- and 1-forms; (+) and (-) forms; keto-, enol-, and enolate
forms; syn- and anti-forms; synclinal- and anticlinal-forms; a- and   p-forms; axial and equatorial
forms; boat-, chair-, twist-, envelope-, and half chair-forms; and combinations thereof,
hereinafter collectively referred to as "isomers" (or "isomeric forms").
 [00153]    In one embodiment, a compound described herein may be an enantiomerically
enriched isomer of a stereoisomer described herein. For example, the compound may have an
enantiomeric excess of at least about 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%,
60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. Enantiomer, when used
herein, refers to either of a pair of chemical compounds whose molecular structures have a
mirror-image relationship to each other.
                                                  26

[00154]      In one embodiment, a preparation of a compound disclosed herein is enriched for an
isomer of the compound having a selected stereochemistry, e.g., R or S, corresponding to a
selected stereocenter. For example, the compound has a purity corresponding to a compound
having a selected stereochemistry of a selected stereocenter of at least about 60%, 65%, 70%,
75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%.
[00155]      In one embodiment, a composition described herein includes a preparation of a
compound disclosed herein that is enriched for a structure or structures having a selected
stereochemistry, e.g., R or S, at a selected stereocenter. Exemplary R/S configurations can be
those provided in an example described herein.
[00156]      An "enriched preparation," as used herein, is enriched for a selected
stereoconfiguration of one, two, three or more selected stereocenters within the subject
compound. Exemplary selected stereocenters and exemplary stereoconfigurations thereof can be
selected from those provided herein, e.g., in an example described herein. By enriched is meant
at least 60%, e.g., of the molecules of compound in the preparation have a selected
stereochemistry of a selected stereocenter. In an embodiment it is at least 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%,
85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. Enriched refers to the level of a subject molecule(s)
and does not connote a process limitation unless specified.
[001571      Compounds may be prepared in racemic form or as individual enantiomers or
diastereomers by either stereospecific synthesis or by resolution. The compounds may, for
example, be resolved into their component enantiomers or diastereomers by standard techniques,
such as the formation of stereoisomeric pairs by salt formation with an optically active base,
followed by fractional crystallization and regeneration of the free acid. The compounds may also
be resolved by formation of stereoisomeric esters or amides, followed by chromatographic
separation and removal of the chiral auxiliary. Alternatively, the compounds may be resolved
using a chiral HPLC column, The enantiomers also may be obtained from kinetic resolution of
the racemate of corresponding esters using lipase enzymes.
[001581      Except as discussed below for tautomeric forms, specifically excluded from the term
"isomers," as used herein, are structural (or constitutional) isomers (i.e., isomers which differ in
the connections between atoms rather than merely by the position of atoms in space). For
example, a reference to a methoxy group, -OCH 3 , is not to be construed as a reference to its
structural isomer, a hydroxymethyl group, -CH 2OH. Similarly, a reference to ortho-chlorophenyl
                                                  27

is not to be construed as a reference to its structural isomer, meta-chlorophenyl. However, a
reference to a class of structures may well include structurally isomeric forms falling within that
class (e.g., C3 -alkyl or propyl includes n-propyl and iso-propyl; C4-alkyl or butyl includes n-, iso
, see-, and tert-butyl; methoxyphenyl includes ortho-, meta-, and para-methoxyphenyl).
[00159]      The above exclusion does not pertain to tautomeric forms, for example, keto-, enol-,
and enolate-forms, as in, for example, the following tautomeric pairs: keto/enol, imine/enamine,
amide/imino alcohol, amidine/amidine, nitroso/oxime, thioketone/enethiol, N
nitroso/hydroxyazo, and nitro/aci-nitro.
[00160]      Note that specifically included in the term "isomer" are compounds with one or more
isotopic substitutions. For example, H may be in any isotopic form, including 1H, 2H (D), and 3H
(T); C may be in any isotopic form, including ' 2C, "C, and "C; 0 may be in any isotopic form,
including 160 and '0; and the like.
         Salts
[00161]      A compound described herein can be in the form of a salt, e.g., a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" includes salts of the active
compounds that are prepared with relatively nontoxic acids or bases, depending on the particular
substituents found on the compounds described herein. Neutral forms of the compounds may be
regenerated by contacting the salt with a base or acid and isolating the parent compound in a
conventional manner. The parent form of the compound differs from the various salt forms in
certain physical properties, such as solubility in polar solvents, but otherwise the salts are
equivalent to the parent form of the compound for the purposes of this disclosure. Examples of
pharmaceutically acceptable salts are discussed in Berge et al, 1977, "Pharmaceutically
Acceptable Salts." J. Pharm. Sci. Vol. 66, pp. 1-19.
[001621      For example, if the compound is anionic, or has a functional group which may be
anionic (e.g., -COOH may be -COO~), then a salt may be formed with a suitable cation.
Examples of suitable inorganic cations include, but are not limited to, alkali metal ions such as
Na* and K, alkaline earth cations such as Ca 2+ and Mg2 , and other cations. Examples of
suitable organic cations include, but are not limited to, ammonium ion (i.e., NHl4) and
substituted ammonium ions (e.g., NH3R t , NH 2R24, NHR 3 , NRf). Examples of some suitable
substituted ammonium ions are those derived from: ethylamine, diethylamine,
dicyclohexylamine, triethylamine, butylamine, ethylenediamine, ethanolamine, diethanolamine,
                                                   28

piperazine, benzylamine, phenylbenzylamine, choline, meglumine, and tromethamine, as well as
amino acids, such as lysine and arginine.
[00163]      If the compound is cationic, or has a functional group that may be cationic (e.g., -NH 2
may be -NHf), then a salt may be formed with a suitable anion. Examples of suitable inorganic
anions include, but are not limited to, those derived from the following inorganic acids:
hydrochloric, hydrobromic, hydroiodic, sulfuric, sulfurous, nitric, nitrous, phosphoric, and
phosphorous.
[00164]      Examples of suitable organic anions include, but are not limited to, those derived
from the following organic acids: 2-acetyoxybenzoic, acetic, ascorbic, aspartic, benzoic,
camphorsulfonic, cinnamic, citric, edetic, ethanedisulfonic, ethanesulfonic, fumaric,
glucoheptonic, gluconic, glutamic, glycolic, hydroxymaleic, hydroxynaphthalene carboxylic,
isethionic, lactic, lactobionic, lauric, maleic, malic, methanesulfonic, mucic, oleic, oxalic,
palmitic, pamoic, pantothenic, phenylacetic, phenylsulfonic, propionic, pyruvic, salicylic, stearic,
succinic, sulfanilic, tartaric, p-toluenesulfonic, and valeric. Examples of suitable polymeric
organic anions include, but are not limited to, those derived from the following polymeric acids:
tannic acid, carboxymethyl cellulose.
[001651      Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a particular compound also includes salt
forms thereof.
        Chemically ProtectedForms
[00166]      It may be convenient or desirable to prepare, purify, and/or handle an active
compound in a chemically protected form. The term "chemically protected form" is used herein
in the conventional chemical sense and pertains to a compound in which one or more reactive
functional groups are protected from undesirable chemical reactions under specified conditions
(e.g., pH, temperature, radiation, solvent, and the like), In practice, well known chemical
methods are employed to reversibly render unreactive a functional group, which otherwise would
be reactive, under specified conditions. In a chemically protected form, one or more reactive
functional groups are in the form of a protected or protecting group (also known as a masked or
masking group or a blocked or blocking group). By protecting a reactive functional group,
reactions involving other unprotected reactive functional groups can be performed, without
affecting the protected group; the protecting group may be removed, usually in a subsequent
step, without substantially affecting the remainder of the molecule. See, for example, Protective
                                                   29

Groups in OrganicSynthesis (T. Green and P. Wuts; 3rd Edition; John Wiley and Sons, 1999).
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a particular compound also includes chemically
protected forms thereof
[00167]      A wide variety of such "protecting," "blocking," or "masking" methods are widely
used and well known in organic synthesis. For example, a compound which has two
nonequivalent reactive functional groups, both of which would be reactive under specified
conditions, may be derivatized to render one of the functional groups "protected," and therefore
unreactive, under the specified conditions; so protected, the compound may be used as a reactant
which has effectively only one reactive functional group. After the desired reaction (involving
the other functional group) is complete, the protected group may be "deprotected" to return it to
its original functionality.
[001681      A hydroxy group may be protected as an ether (-OR) or an ester (-OC(O)R), for
example, as: a t-butyl ether; a benzyl, benzhydryl (diphenylmethyl), or trityl (triphenylmethyl)
ether; a trimethylsilyl or t-butyldimethylsilyl ether; or an acetyl ester (-OC(O)CH 3, -OAc).
[00169]      An aldehyde or ketone group may be protected as an acetal (RCH(OR) 2) or ketal
(R2C(OR) 2), respectively, in which the carbonyl group (R2C--0) is converted to a diether
(R2C(OR) 2), by reaction with, for example, a primary alcohol. The aldehyde or ketone group is
readily regenerated by hydrolysis using a large excess of water in the presence of acid.
[00170]      An amine group may be protected, for example, as an amide (- NRC(O)R) or a
urethane (-NRC(O)OR), for example, as: a methyl amide (-NHC(O)CH 3); a benzyloxy amide (
NHC(O)OCH 2CH 5 , -NH-Cbz); as a t-butoxy amide (- NHC(O)OC(CH3) 3, -NH-Boc); a 2
biphenyl-2-propoxy amide (-NHCO(O)C(CH 3)2CH 4C6 H5 , -NH-Bpoc), as a 9- fluorenylmethoxy
amide (-NH-Fmoc), as a 6-nitroveratryloxy amide (-NH-Nvoc), as a 2-trimethylsilylethyloxy
amide (-NH- Teoc), as a 2,2,2-trichloroethyloxy amide (-NH-Troc), as an allyloxy amide (-NH
Alloc), as a 2(-phenylsulphonyl)ethyloxy amide (-NH-Psec); or, in suitable cases (e.g., cyclic
amines), as a nitroxide radical (>N-O ).
[0171]       A carboxylic acid group may be protected as an ester, for example, as: an alkyl ester
(e.g., a methyl ester; a t-butyl ester); a haloalkyl ester (e.g., a haloalkyl ester); a trialkylsilylalkyl
ester; or an arylalkyl ester (e.g., a benzyl ester; a nitrobenzyl ester); or as an amide, for example,
as a methyl aide.
                                                    30

[00172]     A thiol group may be protected as a thioether (-SR), for example, as: a benzyl
thioether; an acetamidomethyl ether (-S-CH 2NHC(O)CH 3)
        Prodrugsand Other Modifications
[00173]     In addition to salt forms, the present invention may also provide compounds that are
in a prodrug form. Prodrugs of the compounds described herein are those compounds that readily
undergo chemical changes under physiological conditions to provide the compounds described
herein. Prodrugs can be converted to the compounds of the present invention by chemical or
biochemical methods in an ex vivo environment. For example, prodrugs can be slowly converted
to the compounds of the present invention when placed in a transdermal patch reservoir with or
without a suitable enzyme or chemical reagent.
[001741     A compound described herein can also be modified by appending appropriate
functionalities to enhance selective biological properties. Such modifications are known in the
art and include those that increase biological penetration into a given biological system (e.g.,
blood, lymphatic system, central nervous system), increase oral availability, increase solubility to
allow administration by injection, alter metabolism, and/or alter rate of excretion. Examples of
these modifications include, but are not limited to, esterification with polyethylene glycols,
derivatization with pivolates or fatty acid substituents, conversion to carbamates, hydroxylation
of aromatic rings, and heteroatom substitution in aromatic rings.
Compositions
[00175]     In one aspect, the disclosure provides a composition comprising a compound of
formula (1) as described herein (e.g., a compound of formula (I), a compound of formula (Ia), or
a compound of formula (Ib)), and a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog (e.g., a compound of
formula (IV)). In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising 2
(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide hydrochloride (e.g.,
the racemic compound or the (R) or (S) enantiomer), and a compound selected from the group
consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl
ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia
isopropyl ester, PGF2a isopropyl ester, PGF3a isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
In another aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising 4-(3-amino-1
(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate (e.g., the racemic
                                                  31

compound or the (R) or (S) enantiomer), and a compound selected from the group consisting of
latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14
dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester,
PGF2a isopropyl ester, PGF3a isopropyl ester, and fluprostenol isopropyl ester. In another
aspect, the disclosure may provide a composition comprising 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N
(isoquinolin-6-yl)propananide (e.g., the racemic compound or the (R) or (S) enantiomer), and a
compound selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost,
AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester, latanoprostene
bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2 isopropyl ester, PGF3a isopropyl ester, and
fluprostenol isopropyl ester. In another aspect, the disclosure provides a composition comprising
a compound of formula (II) as described herein. In another aspect, the disclosure provides a
composition comprising a compound of formula (III) as described herein.
[001761      Compositions of the present disclosure may comprise safe and effective amounts of
the subject compounds. As used herein, "safe and effective amount" means an amount of a
compound sufficient to significantly induce a positive modification in the condition to be treated,
but low enough to avoid serious side effects (at a reasonable benefit/risk ratio), within the scope
of sound medical judgment. A safe and effective amount of a compound will vary with the
particular condition being treated, the age and physical condition of the patient being treated, the
severity of the condition, the duration of treatment, the nature of concurrent therapy, the
particular pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier utilized, and like factors within the knowledge and
expertise of the attending physician.
[001771      In embodiments, a composition may include a compound of formula (1), (Ia), (Ib), (II)
or (III) at an amount of about 0.001% to about 2.0% w/v, e.g., about 0.01% to about 1.0% w/v.
In embodiments, a compound of formula (I), (Ia), (Tb), (II) or (III) may be included in a
composition at an amount of less than about 0.0025%, less than about 0.010%, less than about
0.0 15%, less than about 0.025%, less than about 0.05%, less than about 0.080%, less than about
0.10%, less than about 0.20%, less than about 0.40%, less than about 0.60%, less than about
0.80%, less than about 0.10%, less than about 0.5%, less than about 0.7%, less than about 1.0%,
less than about 1.2%, less than about 1.4%, less than about 1.5%, less than about 1.6%, less than
about 1.8, less than about 2.0%, at least about 0.0025%, at least about 0.010%, at least about
0.015%, at least about 0.020%, at least about 0.05%, at least about 0.075%, at least about 0. 10%,
                                                  32

at least about 0.20%, at least about 0.40%, at least about 0.60%, at least about 0.80, at least about
1.0%, at least about 1.2%, at least about 1.4%, at least about 1.6%, at least about 1.8%, at least
about 2.0, about 0.0025%, about 0.010%, about 0.015%, about 0.03%, about 0.05%, about
0.10%, about 0.20%, about 0.40%, about 0.60%, about 0.80%, about 1.0%, about 1.2%, about
1.4%, about 1.6%, about 1.8%, or about 2.0%.
[00178]     In embodiments, a composition may include a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin
analog (e.g., a compound of formula (TV), or latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR
102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-cloprostenol isopropyl ester, latanoprostene bunod,
unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF 2a isopropyl ester, PGF3a isopropyl ester, or
fluprostenol isopropyl ester) at an amount of about 0.0001% to about 0.5% w/v, e.g., about
0.0005% to about 0.1% w/v, or about 0.001% to about 0.05%. In embodiments, a prostaglandin
or prostaglandin analog may be included in a composition at an amount of about 0.001%, about
0.002%, about 0.003%, about 0.004%, about 0.005%, about 0.006%, about 0.007%, about
0.008%, about 0.009%, about 0.010%, about 0.011%, about 0.012%, about 0.0 13%,about
0.0 14%, about 0.0 15%,about 0.016%, about 0.017%, about 0.0 18%, about 0.0 19%, about
0.020%, about 0.021%, about 0.022%, about 0.023%, about 0.024%, about 0.025%, about
0.026%, about 0.027%, about 0.028%, about 0.029%, about 0.030%, about 0.03 1%,about
0.032%, about 0.033%, about 0.034%, about 0.035%, about 0.036%, about 0.037%, about
0.038%, about 0.039%, about 0.040%, about 0.041%, about 0.042%, about 0,043%, about
0.044%, about 0.045%, about 0.046%, about 0.047%, about 0.048%, about 0.049%, or about
0.050%.
         Additional Components
[00179]     Compositions of the present disclosure may further include one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, For example, compositions may include additional,
pharmaceutically acceptable components such as buffers, tonicity agents, chelating agents,
sugars or sugar alcohols, viscosity enhancers and surfactants.
[00180]     A buffer may comprise, for example, phosphate buffer, borate buffer, citrate buffer,
maleate buffer, tartrate buffer, acetate buffer, tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (TRIS), an
amino acid buffer (e.g., glycine), combination buffers such as borate/phosphate buffer,
citrate/phosphate buffer, and the like. In embodiments, a composition may include an amount of
                                                    33

a buffer that is effective to provide a suitable buffering capacity to a composition. Other
components of the compositions, while having other functions, may also affect the buffer
capacity. For example, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), often used as a chelating agent,
can have an effect on the buffer capacity of a solution.
[00181]      Compositions may include one or more tonicity agents, such that the composition
may be isotonic with body fluids. A tonicity agent can be non-ionic or ionic. Non-ionic tonicity
agents include sugars, sugar alcohols and other polyols, diols such as glycerol, mannitol,
erythritol, and sugars such as dextrose. Other non-ionic tonicity agents such as polyethylene
glycols, propylene glycol, which also function as co-solvents, can also be used. A tonicity agent
can also be an ionic agent such as, for example, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, a balanced
salt solution, sodium phosphate, or sodium citrate. For example, a non-ionic tonicity agent may
be included in a composition at an amount of about 0.10 to about 20%, about 1.0 to about 10%,
or about 2.0 to about 6.0%. An ionic tonicity agent may be included in a composition at an
amount of about 0.10% to about 2.5%, about 0.25% to about 2.0%, or about 0.50% to about
1.0% w/v.
[001821      Compositions may also include one or more chelating agents or sequestering agents.
A wide range of organic acids, amines or compounds which include an acid group and an amine
function are capable of acting as chelating agents. For example, nitrilotriacetic acid,
diethylenetriaminepentacetic acid, hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic acid, 1,2
diaminocyclohexane tetraacetic acid, hydroxyethylaminodiacetic acid,
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and its salts, polyphosphates, citric acid and its salts, tartaric acid
and its salts, and the like and mixtures thereof, are useful as chelating agents.
Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and its alkali metal salts, are suitable cheating agents,
such as the disodium salt of EDTA (also known as disodium edetate). In embodiments, a
chelating agent may be included in a composition at an amount of about 0.001% to about 0.25%
w/v, about 0.005% to about 0.15% w/v, or about 0.01% to about 0.1% w/v. In embodiments, a
composition may include a chelating agent in an amount effective to enhance the effectiveness of
an antimicrobial component and/or to form a complex with metal ions.
[00183]      Compositions may further include one or more preservatives. Suitable preservatives
include, but are not limited to, sodium bisulfite, sodium bisulfate, sodium thiosulfate, ascorbate,
benzalkonium chloride, benzododecinium bromide, chiorobutanol, thimerosal, phenylmercuric
                                                   34

acetate, phenylmercuric borate, phenylmercuric nitrate, parabens such as methylparaben,
ethylparaben and propylparaben, polyvinyl alcohol, benzyl alcohol, phenylethanol, sodium
benzoate, sorbic acid, polyquaternium-1, and the like and mixtures thereof. In embodiments, a
composition may include a preservative in amounts of 0.001 to about 1%or about 0.005 to about
0.10% w/v. In embodiments, a composition may include a preservative in an amount that is
effective to inhibit microbial growth or contamination of the composition.
[001841     Compositions may additionally include a surfactant. Surfactants include non-ionic,
anionic, amphoteric and zwitterionic surfactants. Exemplary surfactants include but are not
limited to sodium lauryl sulfate, polyethoxylated sorbitan fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene alkyl
ethers, polyoxyethylene stearates (e.g., polyoxyethylene(40) stearate such as MyijTM-52),
poloxamers, polaxamines, sorbitan fatty acid esters, polyethylene glycols (e.g., PEG-400),
polyethoxylated alcohols, polyethoxylated castor oils (e.g., PEG-40 hydrogenated castor oil,
such as Cremophor* RH 40), docusate sodium, quaternary ammonium compounds, medium and
long chain fatty acids, sugar esters of fatty acids and glycerides of fatty acids, lecithin,
polysorbate 80, phospholipids and sodium lauryl sulfate. Suitable surfactants include those
disclosed in the C.T.F.A. Cosmetic Ingredient Handbook, 1992, pp. 587-592; Remington's
Pharmaceutical Sciences, 15th Ed. 1975, pp. 335-337; and McCutcheon's Volume 1, Emulsifiers
& Detergents, 1994, North American Edition, pp. 236-239. Surfactants may be included in
compositions at amounts of about 0.01% to about 5%, or about 0.1% to about 2% w/v.
[00185]     Compositions may also include a viscosity enhancer, which may increase the resident
time of a composition on the ocular surface. Exemplary viscosity enhancers include but are not
limited to water soluble natural gums, cellulose-derived polymers and the like. Suitable natural
gums include guar gum, gum tragacanth and the like. Suitable cellulose-derived viscosity
inducing components include cellulose-derived polymers, such as sodium
carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose,
carboxymethyl cellulose, methyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose and the like.
Viscosity enhancers may be included in compositions at amounts of about 0.01% to about 5%, or
about 0.1% to about 3% w/v,
[001861     Compositions described herein may also include a solvent. Compositions are
typically aqueous, but may also include optional co-solvents. Suitable co-solvents include but are
not limited to alcohols such as ethanol and isopropanol, ethylene glycol monoethyl ether,
                                                   35

diethylene glycol monobutyl ether, diethylene glycol monoethyl ether, dimethylsulfoxide,
dimethyl formamide, castor oil and combinations thereof. In addition to a compound of formula
(I) or (II) a prostaglandin, and other optional components, the balance of a composition may
comprise solvent.
         pH
[001871       The pH of compositions can affect both stability of the compound and its efficacy.
For example, higher pH may result in decomposition of a compound of formula (I), while lower
pH may be irritating to the eye. In embodiments, the pH may be about 4.0 to about 7.0, or about
5.0 to about 6.0. In embodiments, a composition may have a pH of at least about 5.0, at least
about 5.5, at least about 6.0, at least about 6.5, at least about 7.0, less than about 5.0, less than
about 5.5, less than about 6.0, less than about 65, less than about 7.0, about 5.0, about 5.1, about
5.2, about 5.3, about 5.4, about 5.5, about 5.6, about 5.7, about 5.8, about 5.9, or about 6.0.
[00188]       Composition pH can be adjusted with acid or base, if necessary. Any acid or base
compatible with the components of the composition can be used. Exemplary acids include
hydrochloric acid, citric acid, gluconic acid, lactic acid, acetic acid, and glycolic acid. Exemplary
bases include sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, and triethanolamine.
         Methods of Making Compositions
 [00189]      Compositions may be prepared using standard methods, In embodiments,
composition components may be combined in water (e.g., purified water) with stirring, followed
by pH adjustment to a suitable final pH. Techniques for preparing compositions may generally
be found in "Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences", (Meade Publishing Co., Easton, Pa.).
 100190]      When preparing compositions, components should be selected to optimize solubility,
stability and compatibility. Compositions should typically be sterile and stable under the
conditions of manufacture and storage. Compositions may be sterilized by filtering the
composition through a sterilizing grade filter, such as a filter with a 0.22 micron nominal pore
size.
         Methods of EvaluatingCompositions
 [00191]      Compositions may be evaluated for stability using established procedures. For
example, compositions may be subjected to accelerated stability testing. For example,
                                                    36

compositions remain stable, and do not undergo precipitation or become cloudy when they are
stored at 40 "C for at least 1 month, 3 months or 6 months prior to evaluation. The active
component (e.g., a 6- or 7-aminoisoquinoline compound) should not react with other formulation
components, or decompose. Methods of evaluating such compounds include, for example, high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) or determination of optical rotation (e.g., to
determine if a compound has begun to racemize).
[001921      Compositions may also be evaluated using the Preservative Effectiveness Test of the
United States Pharmacopoeia for parenteral/ophthalmic products. In such tests, which will be
known to those skilled in the art, five indicator organisms are utilized for the purpose of
challenging the preservative system in a product. Three of the five USP indicator organisms
address the growth of bacteria: Escherichiacoli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,and Staphylococcus
aureus. Candida albicansis the representative yeast, while Aspergillus niger is a mold. A
product is inoculated (contaminated) with a number of organisms between 1 x 105 (100,000) to I
x 105 (1,000,000) colony forming units (CFU) per mL of product. At various intervals,
depending on the category, the composition is tested to determine its ability to control
reproduction or destroy the microorganisms. A logarithmic reduction is evaluated at each test
interval required for the category. By test definition, any growth over the allotted amount for any
of the indicated microorganisms renders the preservative in the product not effective.
Compositions may also be evaluated using the European Pharmacopoeia Preservative
Effectiveness Test, which also evaluates growth of P. aeruginosa,S aureus, C. albicans and A.
niger. The compositions of the present disclosure will pass at least one of these preservative
effectiveness tests.
[091931      Pharmacological activity for glaucoma can be demonstrated using assays designed to
test the ability of the subject compounds to decrease intraocular pressure. Examples of such
assays are described in the following paper, incorporated herein by reference: C. Liljebris, G.
Selen, B. Resul, J. Sternschantz, and U. Hacksell, "Derivatives of 17-Phenyl-18,19,20
trinorprostaglandin F2a Isopropyl Ester: Potential Anti-glaucoma Agents", JournalofMedicinal
Chemistry, Vol. 38 (2) 1995, pp. 289-304. Further methods are described in the Examples.
Methods of Use
                                                  37

[00194]     One aspect of the disclosure relates to a method of treating an ocular disorder in a
subject in need of treatment, comprising administering to the subject a safe and effective amount
of a composition comprising an isoquinoline compound such as a compound of formula (I), and
a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog. Another embodiment includes a method of treating an
ocular disorder in a subject in need of treatment, comprising administering to the subject a safe
and effective amount of a composition comprising a compound of formula (II). Another
embodiment of the disclosure includes a method of reducing intraocular pressure comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof a safe and effective amount of a composition
comprising an isoquinoline compound such as a compound of formula (I), and a prostaglandin or
a prostaglandin analog. Another embodiment includes a method of reducing intraocular pressure
comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a safe and effective amount of a
composition comprising a compound of formula (II).
[001951     The compounds of formula (1) and (II) and compositions including them may have
kinase inhibitory activity and are thus useful in influencing or inhibiting the action of kinases,
and in treatment and/or prevention of diseases or conditions influenced by kinases. Exemplary
kinases that may be influenced include, but are not limited to, ROCK-I, ROCK-II, PKA, PKC,
CAM Kinases, GRK-2, GRK-3, GRK-5 or GRK-6. In a suitable embodiment, the kinase
inhibited is a Rho-associated protein kinase.
[00196]     In embodiments, the compositions of the present disclosure may be topically
administered. Topical compositions that can be applied locally to the eye may be in any form
known in the art, non-limiting examples of which include drops, sprays, ointments, or a sustained
or non-sustained release unit placed in the conjunctival cul-du-sac of the eye or another
appropriate location.
 [00197]    Dosages may be varied based on the patient being treated, the condition being treated,
the severity of the condition being treated, the route of administration, etc. to achieve the desired
effect.
 [001981    Administration of a compound or a composition described herein may result in a
decrease in intraocular pressure (IOP) of at least about 3.0 mmHg, at least about 3.5 mmHg, at
least about 4.0 mmHg, at least about 4.5 mmHg, at least about 5.0 mmHg, at least about 5.5
mmHg, at least about 6.0 mmHg, at least about 6.5 mmHg, at least about 7.0 mmHg, at least
about 7.5 mmHg, at least about 8.0 mmHg, at least about 8.5 mmHg, at least about 9.0 mmHg, at
                                                  38

least about 9.5 nmHg, at least about 10.0 mmHg, about 3.0 mmHg, about 3.5 mmHg, about 4.0
mmHg, about 4.5 mmHg, about 5.0 mmHg, about 5.5 mmHg, about 6.0 mmllg, about 6.5
mmHg, about 7.0 mmHg, about 7.5 mmHg, about 8.0 mmHg, about 8.5 mmHg, about 9.0
mmHg, about 9.5 mmHg, or about 10.0 mmHg. In some embodiments, administration of a
composition comprising a compound of formula (I) and a prostaglandin or prostaglandin analog
may reduce intraocular pressure more than either single compound alone, or more than
intraocular pressure is reduced when both compounds are administered to a subject in separate
compositions.
[00199]      The following examples are intended to be illustrative, and should be considered to be
non-limiting.
                                            EXAMPLES
Example 1. Formulations with Travoprost
[00200]      Topical pharmaceutical compositions for lowering intraocular pressure were prepared
by conventional methods and formulated as follows:
                   Formulation                      1             2           3            4
                                               (% w/w)      (% w/w)       (% w/w)     (% w/w)
    (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1
    hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-       0.5            0.5        0.25          0.5
    yl)acetamide hydrochloride
    Travoprost                                   0.004         0.004       0.004        0.004
    Boric acid                                    0.05          0.05        0.05         0.05
    D-mannitol                                    3.0            3.0         3.0          3.0
    Benzalkonium chloride                        0.015         0.015       0.015
    Polyoxyl 40 stearate (Myrj-52)                 0.5           -           0.5          0.5
    Cremophor RH 40                                -             0.5         -
    Polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG-400)             2.5            2.5         2.5          2.5
    EDTA                                          0.01          0.01        0.01         0.01
    Purified water                                q.s.          q.s.         q.s.          .s.
 [00201]     Formulations 1-3 were prepared by adding boric acid, D-mannitol, PEG-400, EDTA,
and Myrj-52 or Cremophor RH40 in a labeled 150-milliliter (mL) plastic container. 100
milliliters (mL) of purified water were then added to bring the solution almost to 100%. The
solution was stirred for 10 minutes. Stock solutions of 1.5% benzalkonium chloride, 0.4%
travoprost, and (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3
                                                39

yl)acetamide hydrochloride were then added and dissolved by stirring the solution for another 10
minutes, and the pH was adjusted to approximately 5.5.
[002021    Formulation 4 was prepared by adding boric acid, D-mannitol, PEG-400, EDTA, and
Myrj-52 or Cremophor RH40 in a labeled 150-mL plastic container. 100 mL purified water was
then added to bring the solution almost to 100%. The solution was stirred for 10 minutes. (R)-2
(dimethylarnino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide       hydrochloride and
travoprost were then added and dissolved by stirring the solution for another 10 minutes, and the
pH was adjusted to approximately 5.5.
[002031    Formulation 1 passed the requirements of the United States Pharmacopoeia
Preservative Effectiveness Test for parenteral/ophthalmic products (USP); the European
Pharmacopoeia Preservative Effectiveness Test (EP-A) and the European Pharmacopoeia
Preservative Effectiveness Test (EP-B).
Example 2. Formulations with latanoprost
[00204]    Topical pharmaceutical compositions for lowering intraocular pressure were prepared
by conventional methods and formulated as follows:
                              Formulation                       5             6
                                                           (% w/w)       (% w/w)
               (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(I
               hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-         0.5          0.7
               yl)acetamide hydrochloride
               Latanoprost                                   0.005         0.005
               Sodium Phosphate Monobasic                    0.031        0.0155
               Sodium Phosphate Dibasic                       0.07        0.0035
               Benzalkonium chloride                         0.015         0.015
               sodium chloride                                 0.7           0.7
               EDTA                                           0.05          0.05
               Purified water                                 q.s.          q.s.
 [00205]   Formulations 5 and 6 were prepared by adding sodium phosphate monobasic, sodium
phosphate dibasic, sodium chloride, and EDTA in a labeled 150-milliliter (mL) plastic storage
container. 100 milliliter (mL) of purified water was then added to bring the solution almost to
 100%. The solution was stirred for 10 minutes. Stock solutions of 1.5% benzalkonium chloride,
and 0,5% latanoprost, and (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen
                                                  40

3-yl)acetamide hydrochloride were then added and dissolved by stirring the solution for another
10 minutes, and the pH was adjusted to approximately 5.5.
                                Formulation                         7              8
                                                                (% w/w)        (% w/w)
                  (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-( 1
                  hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-          0.5            0.7
                  yIacetamide hydrochloride
                  Latanoprost                                     0.005         0.005
                  Boric acid                                       0.05          0.05
                  D-mannitol                                       4.3           4.0
                  Benzalkonium chloride                           0.015         0.015
                  EDTA                                             0.01          0.01
                  Purified water                                   q.s.          q.s.
[00206]     Formulations 7 and 8 were prepared by adding boric acid, D-mannitol, and EDTA in
a labeled 150-milliliter (mL) plastic container. 100 milliliter (mL) of purified water was then
added to bring the solution almost to 100%. The solution was stirred for 10 minutes. Stock
solutions of 1.5% benzalkonium chloride, 0.5% travoprost, and (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1
hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide hydrochloride were then added and
dissolved by stirring the solution for another 10 minutes, and the pH was adjusted to
approximately 5.5.
Example 3. Formulations with Bimatoprost
[002071     Topical pharmaceutical compositions for lowering intraocular pressure were prepared
by conventional methods and formulated as follows:
                         Formulation                         9             10            11
                                                         (% w/w)        (% w/w)       (% w/w)
          (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1
          hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-           0.5            0.5           0.5
          yl)acetamide hydrochloride
          Bimatoprost                                      0.03           0.01          0.03
          Boric acid                                        -              -            0.05
          D-mannitol                                        -              -             4.3
          Sodium Phosphate Monobasic                       0.31           0.31
          Sodium Phosphate Dibasic                         0.07           0.07
          Benzalkonium chloride                           0.0075          0.02
          Sodium chloride                                   0.7            0.7
          EDTA                                             0.05           0.05
                                                    41

           Purified water                          I      q.s.        q.s.         q.s.
[00208]     Formulations 9 and 10 were prepared by adding sodium phosphate monobasic,
sodium phosphate dibasic, sodium chloride, and EDTA in a labeled 150-milliliter (mL) plastic
storage container. 100 milliliter (mL) of purified water was then added to bring the solution
almost to 100%. The solution was stirred for 10 minutes. 1.5% stock solution of benzalkonium
chloride, bimatoprost, and (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen
3-yl)acetamide hydrochloride were then added and dissolved by stirring the solution for another
10 minutes, and the pH was adjusted to approximately 5.5.
[00209]      Formulation 11 was prepared by adding boric acid and D-mannitol in a labeled 150
milliliter (mL) plastic storage container. 100 milliliter (mL) of purified water was then added to
bring the solution almost to 100%. The solution was stirred for 10 minutes. Bimatoprost and
(rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide
hydrochloride were then added and dissolved by stirring the solution for another 10 minutes, and
the pH was adjusted to approximately 5.5.
Example 4. Exemplary Combination Treatment
[002101      Formosan Rock macaque monkeys (Macacacyclopis), animal identification
consisting of uniquely numbered tattoos and color-coded cage cards were used in this study. On
Study Day 1, the animals were at least four years old, and weighed at least 4 kg. The ocular
hypotensive efficacy and tolerability were determined using a paired study design in which
composition was administered q.d. AM for three days to one eye of each monkey (n=6 per
group) with the untreated contralateral eye serving as an internal control. Each dose was
administered just after the t=0, t=24, and t=48 hour measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP).
IOP was taken in both eyes at time points of 0, 4, 8, 24, 48, 52, 56, and 72 hours after baseline
(t=0) IOP measurement. Mortality observations, clinical observations, ocular irritation, and
intraocular pressures were monitored, recorded, or measured throughout the in-life portion of the
study. All treatments were administered as eye drops (one drop per eye). Each animal was
sedated intramuscularly (IM) with approximately 5 mg/kg ketamine HCl (or to effect) with the
objective of using the minimal dose necessary to achieve acceptable sedation to perform the IOP
measurement and dosing procedure. A Model 30 ClassicTm pneumatonometer was used to
measure intraocular pressure (IOP) non-invasively (Reichert, Inc, Depew, NY). One drop of
                                                 42

ocular anaesthetic (0.5% proparacaine) was topically applied to each eye and allowed to take
effect for at least 30 seconds prior to each IOP measurement. Using the pneumatonometer
manual tonometry mode, and with the animal maintained in an upright position, 3 independent
measurements were obtained and averaged for each eye, at every time point.
[00211]     Three Rho Kinase inhibitor (ROCKi) formulations were prepared by dissolving 0.5%
ROCKi (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide
hydrochloride directly in the commercially-used formulations of 0.004% travoprost (Travatano
Z), 0.005% latanoprost (Xalatan) and 0.0 1%bimatoprost (Lumigan), with adjustment of the final
pH to 5.5. When tested according to the above protocol, significant IOP reductions were
observed for each combination above what the components would do individually. Results are
illustrated graphically in Figure 1. (Data for individual compounds are not shown for clarity.)
Example 5. Synergistic Combination Treatment
[00212]     Topical pharmaceutical compositions for lowering intraocular pressure were prepared
by conventional methods and formulated as follows:
                                     Formulation                 12       13
                      (S)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6.ylamino)
                      1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-              0.02     0.02
                      dimethylbenzoate
                      Travoprost                                 -      0.004
                      Boric acid                                0.05     0.05
                      D-mannitol                                 4.7      3.5
                      Benzalkoniun chloride                    0.015    0.015
                      Polyoxyl 40 stearate (Myrj-52)             -        0.5
                      Polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG-400)          -        2.5
                      EDTA                                       -       0.01
                      Purified water                            q.s.     9..
[00213]      Formulation 12 was prepared by adding boric acid, D-mannitol, and EDTA in a
labeled 150-mL plastic container. 100 mL purified water was then added to bring the solution
almost to 100%. The solution was stirred for 10 minutes. Stock solutions of 5% benzalkonium
chloride, 0.4% travoprost and (S)-4-(3 -amino-1 -(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- I-oxopropan-2
yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate were then added and dissolved by stirring the solution for
another 10 minutes, and the pH was adjusted to approximately 5.0.
[002141      Formulation 13 was prepared by adding boric acid, D-mannitol, PEG-400, EDTA,
and Myrj-52 in a labeled 150-mL plastic container. 100 mL purified water was then added to
                                                    43

bring the solution almost to 100%. The solution was stirred for 10 minutes. Stock solutions of
1.5% benzalkonium chloride, 0.4% travoprost, and ROCKi (S)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6
ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate were then added and dissolved by
stirring the solution for another 10 minutes, and the pH was adjusted to approximately 5.0.
[002151      For certain topical ophthalmic glaucoma medications, fixed-dose formulations
containing mixtures of two compounds have proven to be less effective than concomitant
administration of the separate compounds. Using the protocol as described in Example 4, above,
an experiment was conducted to see if administering an admixture of a ROCKi and travoprost
(Formulation 13) was less effective than concomitant administration of the separate compounds.
Surprisingly, not only was there no loss of efficacy with Formulation 13, dosing with the
admixture resulted in a substantially better IOP response than concomitant dosing of the two
separate compounds (Formulation 12 and Travatan Z). Results are illustrated graphically in
Figure 2.
Example 6. Combination Treatment
[00216]      Topical pharmaceutical compositions for lowering intraocular pressure are prepared
by conventional methods and formulated as follows:
                                    Formulation                   14       15
                      (S)-4-(3-amnino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)
                      1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-              0.02     0.02
                      dimethylbenzoate
                      Latanoprost                                 -      0.004
                      Boric acid                                 0.05    0.05
                      D-mannitol                                 4.7      3.5
                      Benzalkonium chloride                     0.015    0.015
                      Polyoxyl 40 stearate (Myrj-52)              -       0.5
                      Polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG-400)             -     2.5
                      EDTA                                        -       0.01
                      Purified water                             q.s.     q.s.
[00217]      Formulation 14 is prepared by adding boric acid, D-mannitol, and EDTA in a labeled
150-mL plastic container. 100 mL purified water is then added to bring the solution almost to
 100%. The solution is stirred for 10 minutes. Stock solutions of 5% benzalkonium chloride,
0.4% latanoprost and (S)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- 1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4
dimethylbenzoate are then added and dissolved by stirring the solution for another 10 minutes,
and the pH was adjusted to approximately 5.0.
                                                    44

[00218]      Formulation 15 is prepared by adding boric acid, D-mannitol, PEG-400, EDTA, and
Myrj-52 in a labeled 150-mL plastic container. 100 mL purified water is then added to bring the
solution almost to 100%. The solution is stirred for 10 minutes. Stock solutions of 1.5%
benzalkonium chloride, 0.4% latanoprost, and ROCKi (S)-4-(3-amino-l-(isoquinolin-6
ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate are then added and dissolved by
stirring the solution for another 10 minutes, and the pH was adjusted to approximately 5.0.
Example 7. Combination Treatment in Humans
[00219]      A sterile, isotonic, aqueous solution was prepared, containing (rac)-2
(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3.-yl)acetamide hydrochloride and
travoprost at concentrations of 0.5% and 0.004%, respectively, and the following excipients:
Boric Acid (NF), Mannitol (USP), Polyethylene glycol 400 (USP), Polyoxyl 40 Stearate (NF),
Edetate Disodium (USP), Water for Injection (USP), and benzalkonium chloride (NF) 0.0 15% as
a preservative. The product may be adjusted with NaOH (USP) and/or HCL (USP) to pH 5.2
5.9.
[00220]      Using the formulation above, a human diagnosed with elevated intraocular pressure
(IOP) was treated once daily with approximately 35 microliter drop(s) in both eyes for up to 28
days. Following this dosing regimen, a measurement of IOP showed a significant reduction from
baseline.
Example 8. Exemplary Combination Treatment
[00221]      Formosan Rock macaque monkeys (Macaca cyclopis), animal identification
consisting of uniquely numbered tattoos and color-coded cage cards were used in this study. On
Study Day 1, the animals were at least four years old, and weighed at least 4 kg. The ocular
hypotensive efficacy and tolerability were determined using a paired study design in which test
article was administered q.d. AM for three days to one eye of each monkey (n=6 per group) with
the untreated contralateral eye serving as an internal control. Each dose was administered just
after the t--0, t=24, and t=48 hour measurement of IOP. IOP was taken in both eyes at time
points of 0, 4, 8, 24, 48, 52, 56, and 72 hours after baseline (t=0) IOP measurement. Mortality
observations, clinical observations, ocular irritation, and intraocular pressures were monitored,
recorded, or measured throughout the in-life portion of the study. All treatments were
administered via once daily eye drops (one drop per eye) for three days. Each animal was
                                                   45

sedated intramuscularly (IM) with approximately 5 mg/kg ketamine HCi (or to effect) with the
objective of using the minimal dose necessary to achieve acceptable sedation to perform the IOP
measurement and dosing procedure. A Model 30 ClassicTM pneumatonometer was used to
measure IOP non-invasively (Reichert, Inc, Depew, NY). The pneumatonometer is a well
studied and well-accepted example of an applanation tonometer. The instrument measures IOP
by determining the corneal area flattened by constant force. The Model 30 ClassicT"
pneumatonometer achieves this by means of a floating pneumatic tube which applies the exact
amount of applanation force necessary to take the measurement. One drop of ocular anesthetic
(0.5% proparacaine) was topically applied to each eye and allowed to take effect for at least 30
seconds prior to each IOP measurement. Using the pneumatonometer manual tonometry mode,
and with the animal maintained in an upright position, 3 independent measurements were
obtained and averaged for each eye, at all timepoints. For each session, dosing consisted of a
single drop (approx. 30 pL) of the composition instilled into the right eye (OD) at t=0, 24, and 48
hours.
[002221     Three solutions were used for comparison in this study. The 0.02% PG324
Ophthalmic Solution was prepared in formulation PG324-CFOl containing 0.02% (S)-4-(3
amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate and 0.005%
latanoprost as active ingredients, 4.7% D-mannitol, 0.05% boric acid, and 0.02% benzalkonium
chloride (BAK), at pH 5.0. The 0.02% AR-13324 Ophthalmic Solution was prepared in
formulation CF324-01 containing 0.02% (S)-4-(3-amino- I-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1
oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate, 0.05% boric acid, 4.7% D-mannitol, and 0.015%
BAK, at pH 5.0.      Xalatan Ophthalmic Solution was obtained from a commercial supplier and
contained sodium chloride, sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, disodium hydrogen
phosphate anhydrous, and 0.02% BAK added as a preservative, at a pH of approximately 6.7.
 [00223]    In this unilateral treatment study, the treatment effect was the difference in IOP
between the treated eye and the untreated eye (AIOP). The AIOP was calculated for each animal
at each time point. Means and variances (standard error of the mean) were calculated for
observed IOP and AIOP for each treatment group at each observation time. Probability
comparisons for AIOP were performed using a one-sample, two-tailed paired Student's t-test. A
critical p-value of p< 0.05 was used to determine statistical significance.
                                                   46

[00224]     The data were analyzed using GraphPad Prism statistical software (Version 4.03 for
Windows, GraphPad Software, Inc., San Diego CA). Some analyses, including the tables in
Appendix C and additional graphs were produced using Microsoft Office Excel 2010 (Microsoft,
Inc., Seattle, WA).
{002251     All three formulations produced highly statistically significant (p<0.01) reductions in
loP as compared to the contralateral control eye at all post-dose time points during the study
(Student's paired t-test). The largest reductions in IOP were obtained with the 0.02% PG324
Ophthalmic Solution. The FDC produced larger IOP reductions than that of either Xalatan*
Ophthalmic Solution or 0.02% AR-13324 alone (Figure 3). Following the final dose on Day 3,
IOP reductions ranged from 2.0 to2.1 mmHg for Xalatan Ophthalmic Solution, 4.1 to 5.2 mmHg
for 0.02% AR-13324 Ophthalmic Solution, and 4.8 to 6.2 mmHg for 0.02% PG324 Ophthalmic
Solution.
Example 9. Combination Treatment in Humans
[00226]     A sterile, isotonic, aqueous solution is prepared, containing (S)-4-(3-amino-l
(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate dimesylate and
latanoprost at concentrations of 0.02% and 0.005%, respectively, and the following excipients:
Boric Acid (NF), Mannitol (USP), Water for Injection (USP), and benzalkonium chloride (NF)
0.02% as a preservative. The product may be adjusted with NaOH (USP) and/or HCL (USP) to
approximately pH 5.
[002271      Using the formulation above, a human diagnosed with elevated intraocular pressure
(1OP) is treated once daily with approximately 35 microliter drop(s) in both eyes for up to one
year. Following this dosing regimen, a measurement of IOP shows a significant reduction from
baseline.
Example10. Synthesis of ROCKi - Latanoprost Conjugate
              OH                                          OH
                                     OH
                                         TMS-CK2N."                           OMee  TIPS-OT
        HO'                     Ph        MeOH                           Ph         2.6-kitidine
            1, atarioprost free acid                             OH         2
                                                  47

                                                                    POTIS                      EDC, DMAP
                              OMe         LIOI-r 20                                   OH         ylh
                      OTIS~THFIH               9iMeOH      T)SO
TIPSOT
                                                                       4   OTIPS
            3   OTIPS
                                 OTIPS                                                OH
                                              TBF    H                                      4 NHU--doxane
               Ph                    TIPS                                                OPH CH 2CL
              H         OTIPS                                    ''              D"
 BoCHN        N         NBocHN                                                      B
            o     ),3d0                                                   'A     A
                                                                             0
                                                                                                      *2HCI
                                                                               H       G
                                                                             0 CQ
                                                                 -12N          N                T
Preparationof (Z)-methyl 7-((JR,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R)-3-hydroxy-5
phenylpentyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate(2).
                      H                                               OH
                                                    TMS-0  2N
                             OHOH                      SCHN2    HOM
                  1, latanoprost free acid                                     OH    2
[00228]     To Latanoprost free acid in MeOH at 0 *C was added TMS-CH 2N2 until the solution
persisted a yellow color. AcOH (2 drops) were added to quench excess TMS-CH 2N2 and the
solvents were evaporated. Column chromatography 70%-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gave pure (Z)
methyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R)-3-hydroxy-5-phenylpentyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5
enoate (2).
Preparationof (Z)-methyl 7-((JR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-5-phenyl-3-(triisopropylsilyloxy)pentyl)-3,5
bis(triisopropylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate(3).
                                                        48

                       OH                                           TIPS
                                -OMe             TLPS-O7                                 IfI
                                       Ph 0      2,6-lutdine TIPSO                  P0
                  Hd
                              OH         2                           3      TIPS
[00229]     To (Z)-methyl 7-((IR,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R)-3-hydroxy-5
phenylpentyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate (2) in CH 2C2 cooled to 0 *C was added 2,6-lutidine and
TIPS-OTf and solution was stirred for 30 min at 0 *C and then stirred for 2.5 hours at room
temperature. The solution was poured into EtOAc and NH 4Cl(sat)/ HCl (1 N) (3:1) and further
extracted with EtOAc. The organics were dried (Na 2SO4), filtered and evaporated. Column
chromatography 10% EtOAc/Hexanes gave (Z)-methyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-5-phenyl-3
(triisopropylsilyloxy)pentyl)-3,5-bis(triisopropylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate (3).
Preparationof (Z)-7-((IR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-5-phenyl-3-(triisopropylsilyloxy)pentyl)-3,5
bis(triisopropylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoicacid (4).
                    TIPSPS
                                         OMe     LUOH*H 2O                    *%               OH
                                   P     O     THOMOH             TiPSO                      H
           TLPSOd
                            nPS                                                4   OTIPS
[00230]      To 3 in THF/MeOH/H 20 was added LiOH*H 20 and the solution was stirred
overnight at room temperature. The solution was poured into EtOAc and NH 4Cl(sat)/ HCl (1 N)
(3:1) and father extracted with EtOAc. The organics were dried (Na 2SO 4), filtered and
evaporated to give (Z)-7-((IR,2R,3R,5)-2-((R)-5-phenyl-3-(triisopropylsilyloxy)pentyl)-3,5
bis(triisopropylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoic acid (4).
Preparationof (Z)-4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-l-oxopropan-2
yl)benzyl 7-(11R,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-5-phenyl-3-(triisopropylsilyloxy)penty)-3,5
bis(triisopropylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate(5)
                                                                                          OTIPS
                  QTfWS                                                 0
                                               EDC, DMAP
                 TOH                 I          Pyridine                   Ph-OTIPS
            TIPSe                Ph              OH                       H        OTiPS
                      4    TIPS                             BocHN         N,5
                                                   H                   0         /   N
                                         BocHN
                                                   NC
                                                 0    49
                                                      49

[00231]     To 4 in pyridine was added tert-butyl 2-(4-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl)-3-(isoquinolin-6
ylamino)-3-oxopropylcarbamate, EDC, and DMAP and the solution was flushed with Argon,
capped and stirred overnight. The mixture as poured into NaHCO 3 (sat) and extracted with
EtOAc, dried (Na 2SO 4), filtered and evaporated. Column chromatography 4 % MeOH/CH 2Cl2
and then 50%EtOAc/Hexanes gave pure (Z)-4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6
ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7-((IR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-5-phenyl-3
(triisopropylsilyloxy)pentyl)-3,5-bis(triisopropylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate (5).
Preparationof (Z)-4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-I-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-I-oxopropan-2
yl)benzyl 7-((IR,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R)-3-hydroxy-5-phenylpentyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5
enoate (6).
                                            OTIPS                                             OH
                                              0-lips    TBAF, THF                                OH
                             H      OTIPS                                    H;O
                 BocHN                     5                       ocHN      N,6
[00232]     To 5 in THF cooled to 0 *C was added TBAF and the solution was stirred 5 min at 0
"C and 12 h at room temperature. The mixture was poured into NH4 Cl (sat)- EtOAc and
extracted with EtOAc, dried (Na 2SO 4), filtered and evaporated. Column chromatography 5-8%
MeOH /CH 2 CI 2 gave pure (Z)-4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1
oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R)-3-hydroxy-5
phenylpentyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate (6).
Preparationof (Z)-4-(3-amino-I-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-I-oxopropan-2-yl)benzy(7
((JR,2R, 3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R)-3-hydroxy-5-phenylpentyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate
dihydrochloride(7).
                                          OH                                                    OH
                                                  4 NHCI-doxane                     -H*2HCl
                       0              ~      O
                                            0-P~r>   CH2CI2               0 b~f             ~     O
                       H        OH                                        H        OH
          BcHN         N               6                        H2N       N,     NN           7
                     O            N                                     O              N
 [00233]    To 6 in CH 2 Cl 2 was added HCl (4N in dioxane) and the solution was stirred for 2
hours at room temperature. The solvents were evaporated to give (Z)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin
                                                         50

6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R)-3-hydroxy-5
phenylpentyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate dihydrochloride (7).
Example 11. Synthesis of ROCKi - Fluprostenol Conjugate
         OH                                              OH
                  't         CO2H       TM$-CH 2N2                      CO2Me        TBS-OT
    HOH6             OH                   MeOH       H':                             2.6-utidine
                                                     HC         OH
          8, fluprostenol       CF 3                                        CF 3
         OTBSOTBS
                                      UOH*H 2 0                           CO 2 H    EDC, DMAP
                         OTHFIH20JMeOH              TBSQ            0   \  /
  TBS                3     \ /r6TB
                    OTBS                                        OTBS                   OH
              10              CF3                              11
                                                                                       IH
                                                                              BocHN      N
                                                                                       0          N
                                     OBS                                       OH
                 3                      T   TBAF.1F          0                       4 NHCI-cioxane
  BocHN                                                               OH          OHOTBS
                  O    f     N7 1                           OoHN1iIN
                 BcN                                                 HO   OH
                                                                          OH
                                               H2N        NO
                                                             Q ~ -N         14
Preparationof (Z)-methyl 7-((JR,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((RE)-3-hydroxy-4-(3
(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-l-enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate(9).
                                                   51

                OH                                                OH
                                        CO2H      TMS-CH,N 2                         CO 2 Me
            Hd                 O-,
                               C                    MeOH      Hd
                                        OHCF3                              OH              3
                  8, fluprostenol          CF9                                  g       CF3
[002341     To fluprostenol in MeOH at 0 *C was added TMS-CH 2N2 until the solution persisted
a yellow color. AcOH (2 drops) were added to quench excess TMS-CH2N 2 and the solvents
were evaporated. Column chromatography 90%-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gave pure (Z)-methyl 7
((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R,E)-3-hydroxy-4-(3-(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1
enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate (9).
Preparationof (Z)-methyl 7-((R,2, 3R,5S)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)-2-((RE)-3-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)-4-(3-(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1-enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate(10).
                 OH                                                 OTBS
                                                  TBS-OO                   =dineCTSO2Me
                                             I>               TBS&f
             Hd       ~           -\~              2,6-lutine                6TBS
                           OHCa
                               9          CF3                           10                CF3
[00235]     To (Z)-methyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((RE)-3-hydroxy-4-(3
(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1-enyl)cyclopenty)hept-5-enoate (9) in CH 2C12 cooled to 0 "C
was added 2,6-lutidine and TBS-OTf and solution was stirred for 30 min at 0 "C and then stirred
for 12 hours at room temperature. The solution was poured into EtOAc and NH4CI(sat)/ HCI (1
N) (3:1) and further extracted with EtOAc. The organics were dried (Na2 SO4 ),filtered and
evaporated. Column chromatography 10% EtOAc/Hexanes gave (Z)-methyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)
3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilytoxy)-2-((R,E)-3-(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)-4-(3
(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1-enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate (10).
Preparationof (Z)-7-((1R,2R,3R,.5S)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)-2-((R,E)-3-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)-4-(3-(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1-enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoic acid
(11).
                    OTBS                                             OTBS
                                        CO2Me     LIOH*H 20                            CO2H
                                        _       THF/H 20/MeOH
                                                                                  O,
            TBSO                      \   /                    TBSO            TBS
                            OTBS            CTa                                           CF3
                                            CF3                             11
                                                      52

f00236]    To 10 in THF/MeOH/H 20 was added LiOH*H 2 0 and the solution was stirred
overnight at room temperature. The solution was poured into EtOAc and NH 4CI(sat)/ HCI (1 N)
(3:1) and further extracted with EtOAc, The organics were dried (Na 2SO 4),filtered and
evaporated. Column chromatography 10% EtOAc/Hexanes 1.5% AcOH gave pure (Z)-7
((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)-2-((R,E)-3-(tert-butyldimethylsityloxy)-4-(3
(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1-enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoic acid (11).
                                                                                              2
Preparationof (Z)-4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-
yl)benzyl 7-((JR,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)-2-((R,E)-3-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)-4-(3-(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1-eny)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate (12).
                                                                                  OTBS
                OT B S                                          0                      O
                                         EDCDM3AP
                                          Pyridine          x    t-o       ~        OB
          TBSO           OTBSH              OH                   H         OTBS
                                   CF3
                                                              O            N    12
                                    BocHNcHN
                                                       N
                                                                                1
[00237]     To 11 in pyridine was added tert-butyl 2-(4-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl)-3-(isoquinolin
6-ylamino)-3-oxopropylcarbamate, EDC, and DMAP and the solution was flushed with Argon,
capped and stirred overnight. The mixture as poured into NaHCO 3(sat) and extracted with
EtOAc, dried (Na2 SO4), filtered and evaporated. Column chromatography using 4 %
MeOH/CH 2 CI2 gave pure (Z)-4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)- I-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- 1
oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)-2-((R,E)-3-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)-4-(3-(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-l-enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate
(12).
                                                                                               2
Preparationof (Z)-4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-
yl)benzyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((RE)-3-hydroxy-4-(3
(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-i-enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate(13).
                                                 53

                                             OTBS                                          OH
                                               O B0   TBAF, THF
                                                                                               H
                          't 0 -       /         TS                                          O
                         H          OTBS                                H            OH
         BocHN           N
                                           12               Bot-N     O               N  13
                       0     KKN                                     0       0    -,N
[002381     To 12 in THF cooled to 0 *C was added TBAF and the solution was stirred 5 min at 0
*Cand 12 h at room temperature. The mixture was poured into NH 4Cl (sat)- EtOAc and
extracted with EtOAc. The EtOAc layer was then washed with NH 4Cl(sat),dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
filtered and evaporated . Column chromatography using 5-10% MeOH /CH 2 CI2 gave pure (Z)
4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)--(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl            7
((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((RE)-3-hydroxy-4-(3-(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1
enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate (13).
Preparationof (Z)-4-(3-anino--(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)--oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7
((JR,2R,3R, 5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((RE)-3-hydroxy-4-(3-(trifluoronethyl)phenoxy)but-]
eny)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoatedihydrochloride (14).
                                         OH                                             OH
                     F                          4 NHC1loxane                                  *2HC
                    3C 00H                            20 2          C                     OH
          Bot-N
      BocHN           H'         OH
                                 OH                         H2N
                                                                     [4OH O
                   O             N     13                         O                       14
To 13 in CH 2Cl 2 was added HC1 (4N in dioxane) and the solution was stirred for 2 hours at room
temperature . The solvents were evaporated and column chromatography using 10-20%
MeOH/CH 2Cl2 gave pure (Z)-4-(3-anino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- 1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7
((1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((R,E)-3-hydroxy-4-(3-(trifluoromethyl)phenoxy)but-1
enyl)cyclopentyl)hept-5-enoate dihydrochloride (14).
Example 12. Synthesis of ROCKi - AR-102 Free Acid Conjugate
      OH                                            OH
                                 TMS-CH2 N2.      ,                        TBS-OTf
                 H/                Al0H                                   23Auidine
                15                                       H1
                                                     54

       OTBS                                                     9TBS                          EDC,DMAP
                                                                          CNae %. CO2H           pyridine
                                       LiOH'H 2 0                                                     OH
TBSC                                THFjH42UMeO
                                                        TBS                               BocH       t
                 17                                                           Is
                                OTBS                                                OH
          O                              THAF THF                                          t TMS-OT. 2A3dfdine
                                    TBS                                                OH     2. IBAF, T
                       H0HN                                                    01O
    Ned                                                             tjBCH           20
Preparationmethyl 7-((1R,2R, 3R,SS)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-hydroxypropy1)-3,5
dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoate (16).
               OH                                                        OH
                                                  TMS-CH 2N 2
                                   H7                MeOH           H1
                    HO                                                           HO
                           15
[00239]     To AR-102 free acid (15) in MeOH at 0 *C was added TMS-CH 2N2 until the solution
persisted a yellow color. AcOH (2 drops) were added to quench excess TMS-CH 2N2 and the
solvents were evaporated. Column chromatography (90%-100% EtOAc/Hexanes) gave pure
methyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-y)-3-hydroxypropyl)-3,5
dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoate (16).
Preparationof methyl 7-((IR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)propyl)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)heptanoate(17).
                 OH                                                     OTBS
                                  so     CO2Me                           ~   oCO2Me
                                      -d            TBS-OTf                                -d
            HO           -    /   ~                2,6 [utidine   TBSO
                      HO16                                                  TBSd    17
                                                        55

[00240]     To (methyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-hydroxypropyl)
3,5-dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoate (16) in CH 2CI 2 cooled to 0 *C was added 2,6-lutidine and
TBS-OTf and solution was stirred for 30 min at 0 *C and then stirred for 12 hours at room
temperature. The solution was poured into EtOAc and NH 4Cl(sat)/ HCI (1 N) (3:1) and further
extracted with EtOAc. The organics were dried (Na 2SO4),filtered and evaporated. Column
chromatography (10% EtOAc/Hexanes) gave methyl 7-((IR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3
(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yi)-3-(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)propyl)-3,5-bis(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)heptanoate (17).
Preparationof 7-((1R, 2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3- (benzo[b]thiophen-2-y)-3- (tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)propyl)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)heptanoicacid (18).
             OTBS                                                   OTBS
                                              UOH*H 20
                                  /        THF/H 2 0/MeOH
                                                             TBSd
                                                             TBSO
     TBSC5
                    TS  17                                             TBd        18
t00241]     To 17 in THF/MeOH/H20 was added LiOH*H 20 and the solution was stirred
overnight at room temperature. The solution was poured into EtOAc and NH 4CI(sat)/ HCI (1 N)
(3:1) and further extracted with EtOAc. The organics were dried (Na 2SO4),filtered and
evaporated. Column chromatography (10% EtOAc/Hexanes) 1.5% AcOH gave pure 7
((I R,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-(tert-butyldimethylsilyoxy)propyl)-3,5
bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)heptanoic acid (18).
Preparationof 4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2
yl)benzyl 7-((IR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)propyl)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)cyclopentyl)heptanoate(19).
                                                                                       OTBS
           OTBS                          EDC,DMAP                 0
                                      OH  pyiidne
                                                                    o ~      st           0
                      TS'O                py H                                           OTBS
                                         BocHN~r       BocHN        NI~~~OB
              T BSO      18          B c N     oN          HNNN19
                                                 56

[00242]     To 18 in pyridine was added tert-butyl 2-(4-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl)-3-(isoquinolin
6-ylamino)-3-oxopropylcarbamate, EDC, and DMAP and the solution was flushed with Argon,
capped and stirred overnight. The mixture as poured into NaHCO 3(sat) and extracted with
EtOAc, dried (Na2SO4), filtered and evaporated. Column chromatography using 4 %
MeOWCH 2 C2 gave pure 4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1
oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7-((1R,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)propyl)-3,5-bis(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)cyclopenty)heptanoate (19).
Preparationofpure 4-(3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-I-oxopropan-2
yl)benzyl 7-((JR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-hydroxypropyl)-3,5
dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoate (20).
                                     OTBS                                                 OH
               O                              TBAF,THF                                       O
                   :1:             z(    OTBS                      IOH
                     HOTBS                                            HOH
     BocH                     OTB                       BocHN         H,         OH
        N                             19                                                 20
               0N
[00243]     To 19 in THF cooled to 0 "C was added TBAF and the solution was stirred 5 min at 0
*C and 12 h at room temperature. The mixture was poured into NH 4 Cl (sat)- EtOAc and
extracted with EtOAc. The EtOAc layer was then washed with NH4CI(sat),dried (Na 2 SO4),
filtered and evaporated. Column chromatography using 5-10% MeOH /CH 2CI 2 gave pure 4-(3
(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7
((IR,2R,3R,58)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-hydroxypropyl)-3,5
dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoate (20).
Preparationof 4-(3-amino-I-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-J-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl7
((]R,2R,3R, 5S)-2-((R)-3-(benzo[b]thiophen-2-yl)-3-hydroxypropyl)-3,5
dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoate (21),
                                    OH                                                    OH
                      01.                     TMS-OTF, 2,6 Muidine    0
                                       OH      2.TBAFTHF                                     OH
                    HOH                                                 H          OH
   BocHN         NO                                          H2N        NOH
                                   20                                            N     21
                                                 57

To 20 in CH 2CI 2 was added 2,6 lutidine (11 eq) and TMS-OTF (11 eq) and the solution was
stirred for 40 min at room temperature . The mixture was poured into NaHCO 3 (sat) and
extracted with CH 2 C12 . The organics were dried (Na 2 SO 4), filtered and evaporated. To the crude
mixture was added THF and TBAF (I eq) and the solution was stirred at room temperature for
15 min. The mixture was poured into NaHCO 3 (sat) and extracted with CH 2Cl 2, dried (Na 2 SO 4 )
filtered and evaporated. Column chromatography (20% MeOHICH 2CI2) gave pure 4-(3-amino
1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-I-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 7-((IR,2R,3R,5S)-2-((R)-3
(benzo[blthiophen-2-yl)-3-hydroxypropyl)-3,5-dihydroxycyclopentyl)heptanoate (21).
Example 13. ROCK - Prostaglandin Salts
                                      OH
                                              6          OOH                                           N
                  l.             HeO              PGF2HH
MezN                 NQ                                               :5   ,-tA~
                                                                 d               T CN
                                                                                   O2    M   e    N
      M eN                                    OH
                               4             eR642                                                  OR
                                                                                                    01
                                          ueo                             OH
           22              OH HeO                                                     23
                                                            iHH
                                   HO      A,~                                             e2N
              N
                  HH
                   n_________                                             OH                   01
                                       H                                                HN
                               22                                  OH
                                                                         H           2              OH
              H22          OPOH1-0
                  N6                                                                       +    N
     H2N- 02                             HC5   AR-l02FRe
                                         HO AR-102       Acdf
                                                     Fee AckdMtN
                                                                                          27r
             22
                                                NeON                     MO52
                              D58

Preparationof the salt of 2- (dimethylamino)-N-(I-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3
yl)acetamide and ()-7-((R,2R43R,5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-((SE)-3-hydroxyoct-J
enyt)cyclopentyt)hept-5-enoic acid (PGF2a)(23).
[002441     To 22 in MeOH was added PGF2. and the solution was heated to approximately 70
*C to dissolve the materials. The solvents were then evaporated to give salt 23.
[002451     Salts 24 and 25 were prepared similarly to salt 23. Salt 27 was prepared from 26
following the same method, but without heat.
Example 14. Synthesis of (S)-3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide
dimesylate salt.
                                     0  o-     1, H2N        N      C
                    BccHN       OH         DMF          DMF  BOCHN
                            28                                     29
Synthesis ofS)-tert-butyl 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-3-oxopropylcarbamate
(29).
[002461     To (S)-3-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-2-(4-chlorophenyl)propanoic acid (28) (8.5 g,
28.4 mmol) in DMF cooled to 0 *C was added 2,4,6-trimethylpyridine and 2,2,2-trichloro-1,1
dimethylethyl chloroformate in DMF. Then, 6-aminoisoquinoline in DMF was added and the
solution stirred for 2 h at 0 "C. The mixture was poured into NaHCO 3 (sat) and extracted with
EtOAc. The organic layers were washed with H20, dried (Na 2SO 4), filtered and evaporated to
give crude 29. Column chromatography (30% EtOAc-Hexanes) and recrystallization
(EtOAc/Hexanes) gave pure (S)-tert-butyl 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-3
oxopropylcarbamate (29, 7.8 g, 64%, >99% S enantiomer).
                                    CI
                                         MsOH. CH2C        0       2MsOH
                             BocMN                    H2,N
                                    29                        30
                                                  59

Synthesis of (S)-3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamidedimesylate salt
(30)
[00247]    To (S)-tert-butyl 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-3
oxopropylcarbamate (29, 7.8 g) was added CH 2Ch and MsOH and the solution was stirred
overnight at room temperature. The solvents were evaporated and the crude 30 was dried on the
high vacuum. Recrystallization (isopropanol) and drying on the high vacuum gave pure (S)-3
amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide dimesylate salt (30,7.2 g, 77%,
>99% S-enantiomer).
[00248]    While the disclosure has been described in detail and with reference to specific
embodiments thereof, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and
modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.
                                                60

                                               CLAIMS
1.      A composition comprising;
        a) a compound according to formula (I):
                              R1       A-N
                                     R2    0               O..N
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 and R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C-C     4
        alkyl, or R, and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached
        to form a ring of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms;
        A is selected from the group consisting of -CH2NH-, -CH(Rio)-, -C(CH 3 )(RIo)-,
        CH2CH 2 -, -CH(Rio)CH 2 -, -CH 2CH 2CH(R13 )-, - CH2CH(Rio)-, and -C(CH 3)(Rio)CH 2 -;
        each Rio is independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
        amino, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl, any of which may be optionally
        substituted; and
        X, and X2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy,
        halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, sulfonyl,
        sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl; and
        b) a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2.      The composition of claim 1, wherein X1 is hydrogen and X2 is a hydroxy group.
3.      The composition of any of claims 1-2, wherein A is -CH(Rio)-,and Rio is an optionally
substituted aryl group or an optionally substituted heteroaryl group.
4.      The composition of claim 3, wherein RIo is an unsubstituted monocyclic heteroaryl
group.
5.      The composition of claim 4, wherein Rio is an unsubstituted thienyl group.
6.      The composition of any of claims 1-5, wherein R1 and R2 are each independently selected
from hydrogen and CrC4 alkyl.
7.      The composition of any of claims 1-6, wherein the compound of formula (1) is selected
from the group consisting of (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2
(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide, (R)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3
                                                 61

yl)acetamide and (S)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3
yl)acetamide, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof
8.      The composition of claim 1, wherein X, is hydrogen and X2 is hydrogen.
9.      The composition of claim 8, wherein -CH 2CH(RiO)-, and Rio is a substituted aryl group.
10.     The composition of claim 9, wherein Rio is a substituted phenyl group.
11.     The composition of claim 10, wherein Rio is phenyl substituted with -CH 2 -OC(O)-R,
wherein Ra is optionally substituted aryl group.
12.     The composition of claim 11, wherein Ra is 2,4-dimethylphenyl.
13.     The composition of claim 9, wherein the substituent is halo.
14.     The composition of claim 9, wherein Rio is p-chloro-phenyl.
15.     The composition of any of claims 8-12, wherein the compound of formula (I) is selected
from the group consisting of (rac)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-l-oxopropan-2
yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate, (R)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2
yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate and (S)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2
yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof
16.     The composition of any of claims 8-10, 13 or 14, wherein the compound of formula (I) is
selected from (R)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide, (S)- 3-amino
2-(4-chtorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide, (rac)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N
(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof
17.     The composition of any of claims 1-16, wherein the prostaglandin or prostaglandin
analog is selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost,
AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester, latanoprostene
bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2a isopropyl ester, PGF3 , isopropyl ester, and
fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
18.     The composition of any of claims 1-17, further comprising at least one component
selected from a buffer, a chelating agent, a tonicity agent, a preservative, a viscosity enhancer, a
sugar or a sugar alcohol, and a surfactant.
19.     A compound according to formula (H):
                                                 62

                                      r   PG
                                   Y
                                     __Y N           X1    X2
                               B                          N
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        Y is selected from the group consisting of alkylene, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, and
heterocyclyl, any of which may be optionally substituted;
        B is selected from the group consisting of -NRIR 2, -CH 2NR 1 R2 , -CH(Rio)R 2, -CCH 3 (RIo)
R2, -NHCH(Rio)R 2, -N(CH 3)R 2, -CH 2CH 2 R 2 , -CH(Rio)CH2R 2, and -CH 2 CH(Ro)R 2;
        R1, R2 and Rio are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amino, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl, any of which
may be optionally substituted;
        X1 and X2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy,
halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, sulfonyl,
sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl; and
PG is the acyl radical of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog.
20.     The compound of claim 19, wherein Xi and X2 are hydrogen, and Y is selected from the
group consisting of alkylene, aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, and heterocyclyl.
21.     The compound of any of claims 19-20, wherein B is -NR1 R2 .
22.     The compound of any of claims 19-21, wherein Ri and R2 are each independently
selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C-C     4 alkyl.
23.     The compound of any of claims 19-22, wherein the PG acyl radical is selected from the
group consisting of the acyl radicals of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102,
cloprostenol, 13,14-dihydroclosprostenol, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone,
PGFi,, PGF2,, PGF 3a and fluprostenol.
24.     A composition comprising a compound of any of claims 19-23, and at least one
component selected from a buffer, a chelating agent, a tonicity agent, a preservative, a viscosity
enhancer, a sugar or a sugar alcohol, and a surfactant.
25.     A compound of formula (III):
                                                  63

                           R2     0   N
wherein:
Ri and R2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C-C      4 alkyl, or
R1 and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached to form a ring of
3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 member atoms;
A is selected from the group consisting of -CH 2NH-, -CH(Rio)-, -C(CH 3)(RIo)-, -CH 2CH2 -,
CH(Rio)CH 2-, -CH 2 CH2 CH(Rio)-, - CH 2CH(Rio)-, and -C(CH 3)(Rio)CH 2 -;
each Rio is independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amino,
aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl, any of which may be optionally substituted;
         X1 and X2 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy,
halogen, alkyl, amino, nitro, cyano, carbonyl, carbonylamino, alkoxy, aryloxy, sulfonyl,
sulfonamido, thioalkyl, and carboxyl; and
         PG 0 is a deprotonated free acid of a prostaglandin or a prostaglandin analog.
26.      The compound of claim 25, wherein Xi is hydrogen and X 2 is a hydroxy group.
27.      The compound of any of claims 25-26, wherein A is -CH(Rjo)-,and Rio is an optionally
substituted aryl group or an optionally substituted heteroaryl group.
28.      The compound of claim 27, wherein RIO is an unsubstituted monocyclic heteroaryl group.
29.      The compound of claim 28, wherein Rio is an unsubstituted thienyl group.
30.      The compound of any of claims 25-29, wherein R, and R2 are each independently
selected from hydrogen and C-C     4 alkyl.
31.      The compound of claim 25, wherein X, is hydrogen and X2 is hydrogen.
32.      The compound of claim 31, wherein -CH 2CH(R1 o)-, and Rio is a substituted aryl group.
33.      The compound of claim 32, wherein Rio is a substituted phenyl group.
34.      The compound of claim 33, wherein RIO is phenyl substituted with -CH 2 -OC(O)-Ra,
wherein Ra is optionally substituted aryl group.
35,      The compound of claim 34, wherein Ra is 2,4-dimethylphenyl.
36.      The compound of claim 33, wherein Rio is p-substituted phenyl.
37.      The compound of claim 36, wherein the substituent is halo.
38.      The compound of claim 37, wherein the substituent is chloro.
                                                  64

39.      The compound of any of claims 25-38, wherein the PG e is selected from the group
consisting of deprotonated free acids of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost, tafluprost, AR-102,
cloprostenol, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol, latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGE1 PGFi,
PGF 2a, PGF 3a and fluprostenol.
40.      A composition comprising a compound of any of claims 25-39, and at least one
component selected from a buffer, a cheating agent, a tonicity agent, a preservative, a viscosity
enhancer, a sugar or a sugar alcohol, and a surfactant.
41.      A composition comprising:
a) (rac)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yl)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide
hydrochloride; and
b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
tafluprost, AR-1 02, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester,
latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2a isopropyl ester, PGF3a
isopropyl ester and fluprostenot isopropyl ester.
42.     A composition comprising:
a) (R)-2-(dimethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-y)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide
hydrochloride; and
b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenot isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydroctoprostenol isopropyl ester,
latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF 2a isopropyl ester, PGF3a
isopropyl ester and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
43.     A composition comprising:
a) (S)-2-(dinethylamino)-N-(1-hydroxyisoquinolin-6-yt)-2-(thiophen-3-yl)acetamide
hydrochloride; and
b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester,
latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGF1 , isopropyl ester, PGF2a isopropyl ester, PGF3 a
isopropyl ester and fluprostenot isopropyl ester.
44.     A composition comprising:
a) (rac)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyt 2,4-dimethylbenzoate
dimesylate; and
                                                 65

b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester,
latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFI isopropyl ester, PGF2a isopropyl ester, PGF3a
isopropyl ester and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
45.      A composition comprising:
a) (R)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate
dimesylate; and
b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester,
latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2a isopropyl ester, PGF3a
isopropyl ester and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
46.      A composition comprising:
a) (S)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate
 dimesylate; and
b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester,
 latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFI isopropyl ester, PGF 2a isopropyl ester, PGF3
isopropyl ester and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
47.      A composition comprising:
 a) (R)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-y)propanamide; and
b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenot isopropyl ester,
 latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFi, isopropyl ester, PGFE isopropyl ester, PGF3a
 isopropyl ester and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
         48.     A composition comprising:
 a) (S)- 3-amino-2-(4-chloropheny[)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide; and
 b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
 tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester,
 latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF2a isopropyl ester, PGF3 a
 isopropyl ester and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
 49.     A composition comprising:
                                                  66

a) (rac)- 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-N-(isoquinolin-6-yl)propanamide; and
b) a prostaglandin selected from the group consisting of latanoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost,
tafluprost, AR-102, cloprostenol isopropyl ester, 13,14-dihydrocloprostenol isopropyl ester,
latanoprostene bunod, unoprostone, PGFia isopropyl ester, PGF 2, isopropyl ester, PGF 3"
isopropyl ester and fluprostenol isopropyl ester.
50.     The composition of any of claims 41-49, further comprising at least one component
selected from a buffer, a chelating agent, a tonicity agent, a preservative, a viscosity enhancer, a
sugar or a sugar alcohol, and a surfactant.
51.     A method of treating an ocular disorder in a subject in need of treatment, comprising
administering to the subject a compound or composition of any of claims 1-50.
52.     The method of claim 51, wherein the ocular disorder is glaucoma.
53.     The method of claim 52, wherein the compound or composition is administered topically
to an eye of the subject.
54,     A method of reducing intraocular pressure in a subject in need thereof, comprising
topically administering to an eye of the subject a compound or composition of any of claims 1
50,
55.     A compound selected from the group consisting of:
a) (R)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate
dimesylate;
b) (S)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)-1-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate
dimesylate; and
c) (rac)-4-(3-amino-1-(isoquinolin-6-ylamino)- I-oxopropan-2-yl)benzyl 2,4-dimethylbenzoate
dimesylate.
                                                  67

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
