                                       ABSTRACT
        A female hardened fiber optic connector that has a connector assembly, a
connector sleeve and a female coupling housing. The connector sleeve has a passageway
between a first end and a second end. The female coupling housing has an opening that
receives a portion of the connector sleeve using one or more pockets.
                                           - 20 -

  FEMALE HARDENED OPTICAL CONNECTORS FOR USE WITH MALE PLUG
                                      CONNECTORS
                                         PRIORITY
[0001]       This application is an innovation divisional of AU 2013206652 filed 2 July
2013, which in turn claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Pat. App. 13/833,176 filed on
March 15, 2013 and also claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. §119 of U.S.
Provisional Application Serial No. 61/769,251 filed on February 26, 2013 the content of
all of which are relied upon and incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                       BACKGROUND
[0002]       The disclosure is directed to female hardened optical connectors and cable
assemblies using the same.       More specifically, the disclosure is directed to female
hardened optical connectors used for making an optical connection with a hardened male
plug connector.
[0003]        Optical fiber is increasingly being used for a variety of applications,
including but not limited to broadband voice, video, and data transmission.           As
bandwidth demands increase optical fiber is migrating toward subscribers in outdoor
communication networks such as in fiber to the premises applications such as FTTx and
the like. To address this need for making optical connections in communication networks
for the outside the plant environment hardened fiber optic connectors were developed.
One of the most commercially successful hardened fiber optic connectors is the
OptiTap@ male plug connector sold by Corning Cable Systems, LLC of Hickory, North
Carolina, such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,090,406 and 7,113,679 (the '406 and '679
patents) and incorporated herein by reference.     The Optitap@ connector is a hardened
male plug connector for terminating a cable that is configured for optical connection
using a receptacle.     As used herein, the term "hardened" describes a connector or
receptacle port intended for making an environmentally sealed optical connection suitable
for outdoor use, and the term "non-hardened" describes a connector or receptacle port
that is not intended for making an environmentally sealed optical connection.
                                            -1-

[0004]        FIGS. 1A-IC are prior art depictions showing various stages of mating of a
preconnectorized cable 10 having an OptiTap@ male plug connector with a receptacle 30.
Receptacle 30 that receives the OptiTap@ male plug connector has a first end (not
visible) that receives a standard SC connector (i.e., a non-hardened receptacle port) and a
second end (visible) having a hardened receptacle port for receiving the OptiTap@ male
plug connector, thereby making an optical connection between a hardened connector and
a non-hardened connector. Receptacle 30 typically is mounted in a wall of an enclosure
or the like with a first end typically disposed inside an enclosure for environmental
protection and the second end extends outward of the enclosure for connectivity. Simply
stated, receptacle 30 has a first side with a non-hardened receptacle port and a second
side with a hardened receptacle port for receiving the OptiTap@ male plug connector.
Thus, receptacle 30 can optically connected the hardened OptiTap@ male plug connector
with a non-hardened connector such as a standard SC connector.             Consequently, a
network operator can make an optical connection between a robust outdoor fiber optic
cable assembly to a less robust indoor cable assembly as known in the art.
[0005]          Due to installation space available, right-of-way, complexity issues and the
like, some installations require network providers to provide third party access to an
existing network so the subscriber may choose among network operators (i.e., a multi
operator option), instead of running entirely new cabling to the subscriber. Thus, a third
party operator may need to connect a new subscriber to their network who already has an
existing drop cable installed and routed to the premises of the subscriber. Consequently,
there exists an unresolved need for hardened cable assemblies that can connector
subscribers to third party network operators in a quick and reliable manner.
[0005a]          A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as
prior art is not to be taken as an admission that the document or matter was known or that
the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority
date of any the claims.
                                             -2-

                                           SUMMARY
[0006]        Accordingly, the present invention provides a female hardened fiber optic
connector, comprising:
             a connector assembly;
             a connector sleeve comprising a passageway between a first end and a second
end; and
             a female coupling housing comprising an opening with an internal attachment
feature comprising threads on an internal surface of the female coupling housing, wherein
the female coupling housing receives a portion of the connector sleeve using one or more
pockets.
[0006a]         According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a female
hardened fiber optic connectors including a connector assembly, a crimp body having
first shell and a second shell for securing the connector assembly at a front end of the
shells and a cable attachment region rearward of the front end, a connector sleeve having
a passageway between a first end and a second end along with one or more connector
sleeve orientation features and a female coupling housing. The female coupling housing
has an opening with an internal attachment feature along with one or more female
coupling housing orientation features that cooperate with the one or more connector
sleeve orientation features.
[0006b]       The female hardened fiber optic connectors can be mated directly to a male
hardened connector such as the OptiTap male plug connector.
[0007]       The disclosure is also directed to a hardened fiber optic connector assembly
including a fiber optic cable having at least one optical fiber and a female hardened fiber
optic connector attached to the at least one optical fiber of the fiber optic cable. The
female hardened fiber optic connector includes a connector assembly having a crimp
body with a first shell and a second shell for securing a connector assembly at a front end
of the shells and a cable attachment region rearward of the front end, a connector sleeve
having a passageway between a first end and a second end and including one or more
connector sleeve orientation features along with an orientation rail disposed within the
passageway, and a female coupling housing having an opening with an internal
                                            -3-

attachment feature along with one or more female coupling housing orientation features
that cooperate with the one or more connector sleeve orientation features for aligning the
connector sleeve inside the female coupling housing.
[0008]       According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method of making a hardened fiber optic connector assembly, comprising the steps of
providing a fiber optic cable having at least one optical fiber, providing a female
hardened fiber optic connector that includes a connector assembly with a crimp body
comprising a first shell and a second shell for securing the connector assembly at a front
end of the shells and a cable attachment region rearward of the front end, providing a
connector sleeve comprising a passageway between a first end and a second end and that
includes one or more connector sleeve orientation features, attaching the at least one
optical fiber to the connector assembly, securing the connector assembly between the first
shell and second shell, and placing the connector assembly, crimp body and connector
sleeve into a female coupling housing.
[0008a]      According to still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
hardened fiber optic connector assembly, comprising: a fiber optic cable having at least
one optical fiber; and a female hardened fiber optic connector attached to the at least one
optical fiber of the fiber optic cable, the female hardened fiber optic connector,
comprising: a connector assembly; a crimp body comprising a first shell and a second
shell for securing the connector assembly at a front end of the shells and a cable
attachment region rearward of the front end; a connector sleeve comprising a passageway
between a first end and a second end and including one or more connector sleeve
orientation features, and an orientation rail disposed within the passageway; and a female
coupling housing comprising an opening with an internal attachment feature along with
one or more female coupling housing orientation features that cooperate with the one or
more connector sleeve orientation features for aligning the connector sleeve inside the
female coupling housing.
[0009]      Additional features and advantages will be set forth in the detailed description
which follows, and in part will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from that
description or recognized by practicing the same as described herein, including the
detailed description that follows, the claims, as well as the appended drawings.
                                             -4-

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following
detailed description present embodiments that are intended to provide an overview or
framework for understanding the nature and character of the claims. The accompanying
drawings are included to provide a further understanding of the disclosure, and are
incorporated into and constitute a part of this specification.   The drawings illustrate
various embodiments and together with the description serve to explain the principles and
operation.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[00101      FIGS. 1A-IC show portions of a conventional preconnectorized fiber drop
cable having an OptiTap@ male plug connector being inserted into and connected with a
conventional receptacle;
[0011]      FIG. 2 is a partially exploded view of a preconnectorized cable assembly
using the conventional OptiTap@ male plug connector of FIGS. 1A-1C;
[0012]      FIG. 3 is simplified schematic of a portion of an optical network showing a
preconnectorized female hardened connector that is suitable for optical connection with
the conventional OptiTap@ male plug connector;
[0013]      FIG. 4 is a close-up side view of a female hardened connector attached to a
fiber optic cable according to the concepts disclosed herein;
[0014]      FIG. 5 is an exploded view of the female hardened connector of FIG. 4;
[0015]      FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view of the assembled female hardened connector
depicted in FIGS. 4 and 5;
[0016]      FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional view of the connector sleeve of the female
hardened connector depicted in FIG. 5;
[0017]      FIGS. 8 and 9 respectively are a front view and a front perspective view of
the connector sleeve of the female hardened connector of FIG. 4 and 5;
[0018]      FIG. 10 is a rear perspective view of the connector sleeve of the female
hardened connector of FIGS. 4 and 5;
[0019]      FIG. 11 is a perspective view of the female coupling housing of the female
hardened connector of FIGS. 4 and 5;
                                            -5-

[0020]       FIGS. 12 and 13 respectively are a front end view and a front perspective
view of the female coupling housing of FIG. 11;
[0021]       FIG. 14 is a perspective cut-away assembled view of the assembled female
hardened connector of FIGS. 4 and 5 with the dust cap removed;
[0022]       FIG. 15 is a cross-sectional view showing the female hardened connector of
FIG. 4 connected to the conventional OptiTap@ male plug connector;
[0023]       FIG. 16 is a partial perspective view showing the orientation between a
portion of the connector sleeve and the connector assembly of the female hardened
connector; and
[0024]       FIGS. 17-19 depict different methods for attaching strength members of fiber
optic cables to the crimp body for making cable assemblies.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0025]       Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the disclosure,
examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.         Whenever possible,
like reference numbers will be used to refer to like components or parts.
[0026]       The female hardened fiber optic connectors and cable assemblies described
herein are suitable for making optical and/or optical-electrical connections (if electrical
connections are included in the connectors) to a conventional male hardened connector
such as the OptiTap@ male plug connector. Although the concepts disclosed herein are
explained with respect to a female hardened fiber optic connector used for optical
connection with an OptiTap connector, the concepts disclosed may be used with other
hardened connectors and are not limited to this particular optical connection.         The
concepts of the disclosure advantageously allow the simple, quick, and economical cable
assemblies for deployment by the craft in the field so a subscriber with an existing drop
cable may be connected to a third party network for service or the like. Reference will
now be made in detail to the embodiments, examples of which are illustrated in the
accompanying drawings.       Whenever possible, like reference numbers will be used to
refer to like components or parts.
[0027]       FIG. 2 depicts a partially exploded view of a preconnectorized cable assembly
10 having the conventional OptiTap@ male plug connector 50 depicted in FIGS. 1A-1C
for attachment to cable 40'. Fiber optic cable 40' is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,542,674,
                                             -6-

the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.        Conventional male plug
connector 50 includes an industry standard SC type connector assembly 52 having a
connector body 52a, a ferrule 52b in a ferrule holder (not numbered), a spring 52c, and a
spring push 52d. Conventional male plug connector 50 also includes a crimp assembly
(not numbered) that includes a crimp housing having at least one shell 55a and a crimp
band 54, a shroud 60 having one or more O-rings 59, a coupling nut 64 having external
threads, a cable boot 66, a heat shrink tube 67, and a protective cap 68 secured to boot 66
by a wire assembly 69. Male plug connector 50 is a typical hardened connector used for
drop cable assemblies to subscribers.
[0028] FIG. 3 depicts a simplified schematic showing a portion of a multi-operator
optical waveguide network 1 in an exemplary fiber to the location 'x' (FTTx). 'x' in the
acronym represents the end location of the optical waveguide, for instance, FTTC is fiber
to the curb.   In this case, the network 1 is a fiber to the premises (FTTP) application.
FTTP architectures advantageously route at least one optical waveguide to the premises,
thereby providing a high bandwidth connection to the subscriber. Moreover, applications
to locations other than to the curb or premises are also possible. Downstream from a
central office CO, network 1 includes one or more links that connect to a network access
point (NAP) in the network such as an aerial closure (such as depicted in the rectangle),
multiport, or the like. As shown, drop link comprises a preconnectorized fiber optic drop
cable 10 (hereinafter preconnectorized cable) suitable for outdoor environments that is
routed to the NAP of a first service provider for optical connection. The NAP typical uses
a receptacle having a first side with a hardened receptacle port that extends externally of
NAP and a second side having a non-hardened receptacle port that extends within the
NAP and is protected from the outdoor environment. However, a subscriber may wish to
receive service from a different (i.e., second) service provider (i.e., a competitor
installation) using the existing drop cable running to the premises, instead of the first
service provider. Consequently, the OptiTap@ male plug connector 50 of the drop link
needs to be connected to a suitable interface.     The concepts of the present application
provide a female hardened optical connector 150 along with preconnectorized cable
assemblies using the female hardened connector that efficiently and economically
streamlines the deployment and installation for multi-operator solutions into the last mile
                                            -7-

of the fiber optic network such as to the premises so that the craft can easily change
service providers. Although, network 1 shows a simplified configuration of one type of
FTTx architecture, other networks can employ the concepts disclosed herein.        Other
networks may include other suitable components such as distribution closures, amplifiers,
couplers, transducers, or the like. Likewise, other networks besides FTTx architectures
can also benefit from the concepts disclosed.
[0029]      As shown, FIG. 3 depicts preconnectorized cable assemblies 10 having
conventional male plug connectors 50 as drop cable assemblies for optical connection to
subscribers 5. For multi-operator networks, the third party operator may need to connect
to an existing conventional male plug connector 50. The present application discloses
female hardened connectors 150 suitable for optical connection with the male hardened
connector 50 of preconnectorized cable assembly 10.
[0030]      As depicted by FIG. 3, the third party operator may only have access to
connect the new subscriber by making the optical connection with the existing male
hardened connector that is already routed to the subscriber.    In other words, the drop
cable to the subscriber is disconnected (i.e., unplugged) from the first network operated
by a first network operator at a NAP terminal such as a multi-port or aerial disclosure.
Thereafter, if the subscriber wishes to use a different third-party network operator to
provide new service they must connect to the existing drop due to right-of-way,
convenience, or other concerns.
[0031]      FIG. 4 is side view of a preconnectorized cable assembly having a female
hardened connector 150 attached to a fiber optic cable 40', thereby forming a hardened
fiber optic cable assembly 100. Female hardened connector 150 also has a dust cap 148
attached thereto via a female coupling housing 164. Consequently, the female hardened
fiber optic cable assembly 100 may be optically coupled with an OptiTap@ male plug
connector if a change in service providers is desired. Simply stated, the existing drop
link 10 of FIG. 3 may be disconnected from the NAP or other location and then the
hardened male plug such as the OptiTap@ male plug connector 50 or the like may be
optically connected to the female hardened cable assembly 100 having the female
hardened connector 150 of the present application by removing dust cap 148 and then
directly attaching male plug connector 50.      Stated another way, the female coupling
                                            -8-

housing 164 is sized for receiving the male OptiTap plug connector 50 within the front
end opening for direct optical mating.     Female hardened connector 150 has a relatively
small form factor and aligns the male plug connector 50 in the proper orientation so it
may only mates in one direction.       Further, the optical coupling between the female
hardened connector 50 and the male OptiTap plug connector 50 is environmentally
sealed.
[0032]      FIG. 5 is an exploded view and FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view of the female
hardened connector 150 of FIG. 4. Female hardened connector 150 includes connector
assembly 52, a crimp body 55 having at least one shell 55a (as shown two shells 55a that
form the crimp body) and an optional crimp band (not shown), a connector sleeve 136, a
female coupling housing 164, along with a cable boot 66, and a heat shrink tube 67. For
complexity reduction and simplification, the female hardened connector 150 can use
many of the same parts as the OptiTap@ male plug connector 50 or other standard parts
as desired; however, certain components are specific female hardened connector 150. By
way of example, female hardened connector 150 includes an industry standard SC type
connector assembly 52 or the like having a connector body 52a, a ferrule 52b in a ferrule
holder (not numbered), a spring 52c, and a spring push 52d, like to the OptiTap@ male
plug connector. Although, the term crimp body is used the body does not require crimp
or crimp band and may use other securing means such as adhesive or the like for securing
the shells 55a together. The connector may also include a dust cap 148, but other suitable
configurations are possible using fewer or more components.           For instance, female
hardened connector 150 may also include an optional lanyard for the dust cap 148 as
desired so it is prevented from being lost or separated from the assembly.
[0033]      Generally speaking, most of the components of female plug connector 150 are
formed from a suitable polymer, but other materials such as metal are possible. In one
example, the polymer is a UV stabilized polymer such as ULTEM 2210 available from
GE Plastics if the component is exposed to the elements; however, other suitable polymer
materials are possible. For instance, stainless steel or any other suitable metal may be
used for various components as desired.
[0034]      FIGS. 7-10 are various views of connector sleeve 136. Specifically, FIG. 7 is
a cross-sectional view of connector sleeve 136 and FIGS. 8 and 9 respectively are front
                                            -9-

and perspective views of connector sleeve 136. FIG. 10 is a rear perspective view of the
connector sleeve 136.      Connector sleeve 136 may be formed as a single component or
formed as an assembly of more than one component.          In this embodiment, connector
sleeve 136 is formed from several components, thereby making the features of the
connector sleeve easier manufacture.
[0035]       As shown in FIG. 7, connector sleeve 136 has a through passageway from a
first end 131 to a second end 132 for receiving and aligning respective ferrules of the
male plug connector 50 and the female hardened connector 150 when mated.
Specifically, when assembled, connector sleeve 136 fits within female coupling housing
164 and is used for aligning ferrule 52b of the female hardened plug connector 150 with
the corresponding ferrule of the male plug connector 50.       As best shown in FIG. 7,
connector sleeve 136 includes a body 133, an alignment sleeve 135, and a cap 137. As
depicted, alignment sleeve 135 has a portion disposed within body 133 and is secured
therein by cap 137.     Specifically, a flange (not numbered) of alignment sleeve 135 is
aligned to body 133 using a recess portion of body 133 and cap 137 is attached to the
body 133 for capturing and securing the flange of the alignment sleeve 135 between the
body 133 and cap 137.
[0036]       In addition to the connector sleeve 136 having a passageway 136a between
the first end 131 and the second end 132 it also includes one or more connector sleeve
orientation features.    Connector sleeve orientation features can have many different
suitable constructions such as lugs, tabs, openings, etc. for cooperating with the one or
more female coupling housing orientation features on the female coupling housing. In
the embodiment illustrated, connector sleeve 136 includes a first lug and a second lug for
fitting the connector sleeve 136 into the female coupling housing 164. Stated another
way, connector sleeve 136 fits into female coupling housing 164 in only one orientation
using first tab 136b and second tab 136c having different shapes as discussed below.
[0037]       As best shown in FIG. 10, connector sleeve 136 optionally includes an
orientation rail 139 for allowing connector assembly 52 of female hardened plug
connector 150 to be assembled into the connector sleeve 136 in only a single orientation.
As shown in FIG. 16, orientation rail 139 has a profile that only allows a narrow end of
connector body 52a to abut the orientation rail 139 during assembly.
                                            - 10 -

[0038]       FIGS.   11-13  depict various     views of female coupling housing 164.
Specifically, FIGS. 11 and 12 respectively are a perspective and front view of the female
coupling housing 164 and FIG. 13 is perspective view looking into the front end opening
for showing details inside the female coupling housing 164. Female coupling housing
164 has an elongate structure with a passageway 163 extending from the opening at a
front end 161 to a rear end 162 and sized so that the shroud 60 of OptiTap male plug
connector 50 fits into the front end 161 of passageway 163 when properly aligned.
Consequently, male plug connector 50 may be directly mated with the female hardened
connector 150 for making an optical connection therebetween such as shown in FIG. 15.
As shown, female coupling housing 164 includes a first portion at the front end that necks
down to a second portion at the rear end.          The first portion includes the internal
attachment feature such as internal threads        165 that cooperate directly with the
complimentary external threads of male plug connector 50.               Once the male plug
connector 50 is attached to the female hardened connector 150 the assembly is suitable
for making an optical connection therebetween such as for a third-party network operator
to provide service over a previously installed drop cable.
[0039]       Female coupling housing 164 includes features for aligning and securing
connector sleeve 136 along with alignment features for correctly orientating male plug
connector 50.     As depicted, female coupling housing 164 includes a stop ledge 164a
integrally formed in a side wall (i.e., disposed on the side wall) that is disposed rearward
of internal threads 165.   Stop ledge 164a is configured so that it only allows the shroud
60 of male plug connector 50 to fully seat within the female coupling housing 164 in one
orientation for keying the optical coupling. In other words, the shroud 60 of the OptiTap
male plug connector 50 has alignment fingers having different shapes and the stop ledge
164a only allows the male plug connector 50 to fully seat for optical coupling in one
orientation by preventing insertion of the larger alignment finger into the female coupling
housing 164 past the stop ledge 164a. Female coupling housing 164 also includes a shelf
(not numbered) within the passageway and disposed rearward of the stop ledge 164a.
Shelf 164d has a complementary shape for receiving connector sleeve 136 and includes a
first retention feature 164b and a second retention feature 164c.          Shelf 164d has a
generally rectangular shape that cooperates with the generally rectangular shape of
                                            - 11 -

connector sleeve 136 so that it fits within the passageway of female coupling housing
164. As best shown in FIG. 13, first retention feature 164b and second retention feature
164c have different sizes that cooperate with tabs 136b,136cdisposed on connector sleeve
136 so that it may only fully seat into shelf 164d in one orientation. Further, the stop
ledge 164a has a specific orientation relative to first retention feature 164b and second
retention feature 164c.
[0040] FIG. 14 is a perspective cut-away assembled view of female hardened connector
150 with the dust cap removed for showing assembly details. When fully assembled the
crimp body 55 fits into female coupling housing 164 and is keyed to direct the insertion
of the same into the coupling housing 164 in the correct orientation. In this case, shells
55a include planar surfaces on opposite sides of crimp body 55 to inhibit relative rotation
between crimp body 55 and female coupling housing 164. In other embodiments, the
crimp body 55 may be keyed to the female coupling housing 164 using other
configurations such as a complementary protrusion/groove or the like.
[0041]     Rear end 162 of coupling housing 164 includes second portion (not numbered).
The second portion is used for securing heat shrink tubing 67 for providing
environmental protection between the coupling housing 164 and the fiber optic cable 40'
and weatherproofing the preconnectorized cable assembly. The other end of heat shrink
tubing 67 is disposed about a portion of the cable jacket, thereby inhibiting water from
entering female hardened connector 150.        Further, the second portion allows for the
attachment of boot 66 to the rear end 162 of coupling housing 164. After the heat shrink
tubing 67 is attached, boot 66 may be slid over heat shrink tubing 67. Specifically, boot
66 may be positioned over the shrink tubing 67 at rear end 162 of female coupling
housing 164 for providing further bending strain relief for the cable assembly.
[0042] Boot 66 may be formed from a flexible material such as KRAYTON or the like.
Heat shrink tubing 67 and boot 66 generally inhibit kinking and provide bending strain
relief to the cable 40' near female hardened connector 150. Boot 66 has a longitudinal
passageway (not visible) and may have a stepped profile therethrough. The first end of
the boot passageway is sized to fit over the heat shrink tubing 67. The first end of the
boot passageway has a stepped down portion sized for cable 40' or other suitable cable
that may be used and the heat shrink tubing 67 and acts as stop for indicating that the
                                          - 12  -

boot is fully seated. Dust cap 68 has external threads for engaging the internal threads of
female coupling housing 164 for attachment and thereby inhibit dirt and debris from
entering the female hardened connector 150 via the front end 161 of female coupling
housing 164. Moreover, the cap may include an O-ring for providing a weatherproof seal
between female hardened connector 150 and dust cap 68 when installed.
[0043] FIG. 15 is a cross-sectional view showing the female hardened connector 150
mated to the OptiTap@ male plug connector 50. As shown, the shroud 60 of the OptiTap
male plug connector 50 has alignment fingers having different shapes and when mated
the stop ledge 164a only allows the male plug connector 50 to fully seat for optical
coupling in one orientation by preventing insertion of the larger alignment finger into the
female coupling housing 164 past the stop ledge 164a. In one embodiment, the correct
mating orientation is marked on the female coupling housing 164 such as an alignment
indicia so that the craftsman can quickly and easily mate preconnectorized cable 100 with
the male plug connector 50. For instance, the alignment indicia may be an arrow or dot
molded into the female coupling housing 164, however, other suitable indicia may be
used.   Thereafter, the craftsman engages the internal attachment feature 165 such as
internal threads of female coupling housing 164 with the complimentary external threads
of male plug connector 50 as best shown in FIG. 6 for making the optical connection
shown in FIG. 15.
[0044]      FIG. 16 is a partial perspective view showing a portion of the connector
sleeve 136 having a connector assembly 52 disposed therein.          Specifically, FIG. 16
shows body 133 of connector sleeve 136 having connector assembly 52 inserted therein.
More specifically, a narrow side of connector body 52a of connector assembly 52 abuts
the orientation rail 139 of body 133. Stated another way, orientation rail 139 of body 133
only allows connector assembly 52 to be orientated in one position for assembly.
Likewise, the orientation features such as first tab 136b and second tab 136c of connector
sleeve 136 only allow the connector sleeve 136 to be orientated in one position for
assembly with the female coupling housing 164 having the cooperating female coupling
housing orientation features 164b, 164c. Further, the edge stop feature of 164a of female
coupling housing 164 only allows the shroud 60 of the OptiTap male plug connector 50
to fully seat with the female hardened fiber optic connector 150 for optical coupling in
                                           - 13  -

one orientation by preventing insertion of the larger alignment finger into the female
coupling housing 164 past the stop ledge 164a. Consequently, the respective connector
assemblies 52 of OptiTap male plug connector 50 and female hardened fiber optic
connector 150 are arranged in the same predetermined relationship.
[0045] Preconnectorized cable 100 may have any suitable length desired; however,
preconnectorized cable 100 can have standardized lengths. Moreover, preconnectorized
cable 100 may include a length marking indicia for identifying its length. For instance,
the length marking indicia may be a marking located on the cable such as a colored stripe
or denoted in a print statement. Likewise, the length marking indicia may be a marking
located on female hardened connector 150. In one embodiment, length marking indicia
may be denoted by a marking on female coupling housing 164 such as a colored stripe.
In any event, the length marking indicia should be easily visible so the craftsperson may
identify the preconnectorized cable length. By way of example, a red marking indicia on
female coupling housing 164 denotes a length of about 50 feet while an orange marking
indicia denotes a length of about 100 feet.
[0046] The described explanatory embodiment provides an optical connection that can be
made in the field between a conventional OptiTap@ male plug connector 50 and the
female hardened connector 150 disclosed herein without any special tools, equipment, or
training.   Additionally, the optical connection is easily connected or disconnected by
merely mating or unmating the connector on the ends of preconnectorized cable 10 with
the female hardened connector assembly 100 by threadly engaging or disengaging the
coupling nut on the OptiTap@ male plug connector 50 with the attachment features 165
such as internal threads of the female coupling housing of the female hardened connector
150. Thus, the female hardened connectors disclosed allow deployment of a third party
network provider to an existing cable assembly having an OptiTap@ male plug connector
of the subscriber such as in fiber to the location 'x' in an easy and economical manner,
thereby providing the end user with an option among service providers. Furthermore, the
concepts disclosed can be practiced with other fiber optic cables, connectors and/or other
preconnectorized cable configurations.
[0047]      FIGS. 17-19 depict different methods for attaching tensile elements of fiber
optic cables to the crimp body 55 for making cable assemblies using female hardened
                                            - 14 -

connector 150. The female hardened connectors 150 disclosed herein are advantageous
since they may connnectorized various different types of cable constructions such as flat
cables or round cables that may have different types of tensile elements. As used herein,
the term "strength component" means the strength element has anti-buckling strength,
while the term "strength member" means the strength element lacks anti-buckling
strength. Furthermore, the term "tensile element" means either a strength component or a
strength member.      An example of a strength component is a glass-reinforced plastic
(GRP) rod and an example of a strength member is a tensile yam such as Kevlar@ or the
like.
[0048]      FIGS. 17 and 18 depict fiber optic cable 40' having one or more strength
components 44 such as GRP rods disposed between a first shell 55a and a second shell
55a of crimp body 55.        As shown, cable 40' has the optical fiber attached to the
connector assembly 52 and is positioned within a first shell 55a.      In this explanatory
embodiment, cable 40' has a generally flat construction, but may have oval, trilobal or
other suitable shapes with an optical component 42 having strength components 44
disposed on opposite sides of the optical component 42, which are generally surrounded
by a cable jacket 48. As best shown in FIG. 17, shells 55a have recesses or passageways
for receiving the strength components 44 therein and a first end for securing connector
assembly 52 therebetween. The alignment of shells 55a is accomplished by one or more
pins 57c that fit within one or more complementary bores 57d that may be formed in the
shells 55a or the pins may be discrete components as desired.             In advantageous
embodiments, the shells can be symmetrical so only one mold is needed for making both
shells. FIG. 18 depicts both shells disposed about the strength components 44 of cable
40'.   Shells 55a may be secured in any suitable manner such as by a crimp band 54
and/or adhesive as desired. Shells 55a may also include one or more bores 56d so that
excess adhesive may escape if used for securing the crimp body 55.          As shown, the
optional crimp band 54 is slid onto cable 40' prior to placing the cable in the shell 55a
and then can be slid over the crimp body as represented by the arrow before being
deformed about the crimp body.
[0049]      FIG.    19   depicts another  type   of cable    construction   that  may   be
advantageously preconnectorized with the female hardened connector 150 disclosed
                                          - 15 -

herein.   The fiber optic cable shown has an optical fiber (not visible) attached to the
connector assembly 52, a plurality of strength members 45 such as Kevlar@ or the like,
and a cable jacket 48 having a generally round cross-section.           As shown, strength
members 45 are disposed about an outer barrel 55o of crimp body 55.             Thereafter, a
crimp band 54 may be slid over the strength members 45 as represented by the arrow so
that the strength members 45 are attached between outer barrel of the crimp body 55 and
the crimp band 54 is deformed to secure the strength members 45.
 [0050]      Still other cables are possible with the female hardened connector disclosed
herein. For instance, cable assemblies disclosed herein may include a fiber optic cable
having a subunit surrounded by an upjacketed portion. The subunit includes at least one
optical fiber and a plurality of tensile yams such as Kevlar, fiberglass, or the like
disposed within a subunit jacket. In other words, the tensile yams form a portion of the
subunit and are internal to the subunit jacket. The upjacketed portion of fiber optic cable
includes strength components such as GRP members having anti-buckling strength
disposed about the subunit (i.e., disposed radially outward of the subunit) and within a
jacket. In other words, the strength components are disposed on opposite sides of the
subunit in a generally linear arrangement.       Specifically, the subunit is round and the
strength components are disposed on opposite sides of the subunit and jacket has a
generally flat profile.    Of course, variations on this cable are possible.     By way of
example, the at least one optical fiber can optionally include a buffer layer with a
diameter greater than 250 microns for providing further protection to the optical fiber
such as 500, 700 or 900 microns, but other nominal sizes are possible.           As another
example, the jacket of the upjacketed portion may have other cross-sectional profiles
besides generally flat such as round, oval, tri-lobal, etc.   Moreover, the female hardened
connector may terminate more than one optical fiber.
[0051]       Using cables with a subunit has advantages. For instance, the subunit of the
cable may be broken out from the cable for attaching a second connector to a second end
of the subunit. This ability to break-out the subunit and attach a different type of fiber
optic connector is advantageous for routing the cable assembly from an indoor location
such at the central office and to an outdoor location where a female hardened connector is
desired. Simply stated, a portion of subunit is broken-out from the second end of the
                                            - 16 -

cable assembly and there is no need to strain-relieve (i.e., attach) the upjacketed portion
of the cable since the tensile yams of the subunit are strain-relieved.      Moreover, the
subunit provides a much smaller and highly flexible fiber optic cable at the second end of
the cable assembly for deployment.         Further, any of the embodiments can use any
suitable connector assembly such as a SC or a LC connector assembly having a ferrule
and a connector housing along with other suitable components.
[0052]      The strength components of the upjacketed portion are exposed from the
upjacketed portion and then disposed between first shell 55a and second shell 55a as
described and illustrated. An optional crimp band 54 may be used for securing the shells
55a of crimp body 55 as desired. Additionally, as discussed an adhesive or bonding agent
may be used with or without crimp band 54 to attach or secure strength component
disposed between shells 55a.
[0053]      Also, the plurality of tensile yarns of subunit are attached to the crimp body
55. By way of example, some of the plurality of tensile yams are attached between crimp
body and crimp band as discussed herein. In other words, the ends of the tensile yarns
are sandwiched/disposed between the outer barrel of the crimp body 55 and crimp band
54 and then the crimp band is secured (i.e., crimped) to strain-relieve the tensile yarns.
As desired, the optical fiber of subunit may enter a protective tube at least partially
disposed within the crimp body. Simply stated, a buffer layer on optical fiber is threaded
through (i.e., enters) a protective tube and at least partially disposed within crimp body
55. Protective tube can have any suitable size, shape and/or length as desired that allows
for suitable performance with optical fiber. The buffer layer may also enter the connector
assembly 52 as desired, but the subunit jacket does not enter the crimp body 55.
Moreover, the geometry of shells 55a of crimp body 55 can be modified for the particular
embodiments shown to provide adequate sizing of passageways and the like for the
various embodiments.
[0054]      Although the disclosure has been illustrated and described herein with
reference to explanatory embodiments and specific examples thereof, it will be readily
apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments and examples can
perform similar functions and/or achieve like results. All such equivalent embodiments
and examples are within the spirit and scope of the disclosure and are intended to be
                                            - 17 -

covered by the appended claims. It will also be apparent to those skilled in the art that
various modifications and variations can be made to the concepts disclosed without
departing from the spirit and scope of the same. Thus, it is intended that the present
application cover the modifications and variations provided they come within the scope
of the appended claims and their equivalents.
[0055a]     Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying
the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the
presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
                                           - 18  -

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
      1.      A female hardened fiber optic connector, comprising:
        a connector assembly;
        a connector sleeve comprising a passageway between a first end and a second
end; and
        a female coupling housing comprising an opening with an internal attachment
feature comprising threads on an internal surface of the female coupling housing, wherein
the female coupling housing receives a portion of the connector sleeve using one or more
pockets.
        2.      The female hardened fiber optic connector of claim 2, wherein the female
coupling housing comprises a first pocket and a second pocket disposed on opposite sides
of the female coupling housing for receiving a portion of the connector sleeve.
        3.      The female hardened fiber optic connector of claims 1 or 2, wherein a
portion of the connector assembly is received in the connector sleeve.
        4.      The female hardened fiber optic connector of any one of claims 1-3,
wherein the female coupling housing is sized for receiving a male connector within the
opening for optical mating, and the female hardened fiber optic connector only allows a
complimentary male connector to mate in one direction.
        5.      The female hardened fiber optic connector of any one of claims 1-4, being
a portion of a cable assembly further comprising a fiber optic cable attached to the
hardened fiber optic connector.
                                           - 19 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
