                                           - 34
  ABSTRACT
         The invention comprises a method of operating a breathing apparatus comprising
  measuring a baseline breath flow parameter being respiratory rate and/or tidal volume or
  a parameter derived therefrom,     varying the flow rate provided by the breathing
5 apparatus, measuring a current breath flow parameter being respiratory rate and/or tidal
  volume or a parameter derived therefrom, comparing the baseline and current breath
  flow parameters,   and altering operation of the breathing apparatus based on the
  comparison.   The invention also comprises a breathing apparatus that implements the
  above method.

WO 2013/172722                                                  PCT/NZ2013/000085
                                       8/19
                                     Receive Trigger
                                      Find baseline
                                    respiratory rate       60
                                      and/or tidal
                                         volume
                                   maIx
                                 SIncrease flow/          6
                                    Decrease Flow
                                        Compare
                                    respiratory rate       62
                                      and/or tidal
                                  volume to baseline
                                                       63
              64                                                    63a
               Compriso is     What happens to VT, RR?
          inclusive                                      RR slows, VT increases
                                                        State = awake
                       cc     63b
                        RR constant, VT decrease
                        State = asleep
                                          FIGURE 6

                                                - 1
    CONTROL OF FLOW AND/OR PRESSURE PROVIDED BY BREATHING APPARATUS
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Field of the Invention
 5 The present invention relates to a breathing apparatus including but not solely limited to
   breathing apparatus providing pressure therapy (such as PAP machines or similar) for
   treating obstructive sleep apnea and/or breathing apparatus providing flow and/or nasal
   high flow (NHF) therapy for various respiratory disorders.
10 Description of the Related Art
   Breathing apparatus exist that provide flow and/or pressure therapy to a patient.
   A certain level of flow and/or pressure are usually desired to provide effective therapy.
   However, a flow or pressure that is too high can produce undesirable effects in a patient
   that is awake.
15
   It is an object of the present invention to alter the flow and/or pressure provided to a
   patient by a breathing apparatus dependent on whether they are awake or asleep and/or
   based on the reaction of breath flow parameters to changes in flow, or to overcome at
   least some of the drawbacks mentioned above.
20
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   In one aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a method of determining a
   sleep state of a patient comprising the steps of measuring a current breath flow
   parameter of a patient receiving fluid at a flow rate different to a baseline flow rate, the
25 breath flow parameter comprising respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, or one or more
   parameters derived therefrom, comparing the current breath flow parameter to an
   equivalent baseline breath flow parameter of the patient measured previously at the
   different, baseline, flow rate, and determining a sleep state of a patient based on the
   comparison between the current breath flow parameter at the flow rate and the
30 equivalent baseline breath flow parameters measured previously at the different,
   baseline, flow rate.
   Preferably the method further comprises the step of, prior to measuring a current breath
   flow parameter of a patient, increasing, decreasing or maintaining the flow rate of the
35 fluid provided to the patient such that the flow rate is higher than the baseline flow rate.

                                                - 2
   Preferably the method further comprises the step of, prior to measuring a current breath
   flow parameter of a patient, increasing, decreasing or maintaining the flow rate of the
   fluid provided to the patient such that the flow rate is lower than the baseline flow rate.
 5 Preferably the baseline breath flow parameter is measured during a calibration process or
   during actual use of a breathing apparatus that provides fluid flow to the patient.
   Preferably if the sleep state of a patient cannot be determined then current breath flow
   parameter becomes a baseline breath flow parameter after the current breath flow
10 parameter becomes the baseline breath flow parameter, measuring a current breath flow
   parameter of a patient, the breath flow parameter comprising respiratory rate and/or
   tidal volume, or one or more parameters derived therefrom, comparing the current
   breath flow parameter to the baseline breath flow parameter of the patient measured
   previously at a different baseline flow rate, altering operation of a breathing apparatus
15 that provides the fluid flow based on the comparison.
   Preferably the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, decreased or
   maintained but is above the baseline flow rate, the current breath flow parameter is a
   current respiratory rate and/or current tidal volume, the baseline breath flow parameter
20 is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline tidal volume, and an awake sleep state is
   determined if the current respiratory rate is lower than the baseline respiratory rate,
   and/or the current tidal volume is higher than the baseline tidal volume.
   Preferably the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, or decreased or
25 maintained but is above the baseline flow rate, the current breath flow parameter is a
   current respiratory rate and/or current tidal volume, the baseline breath flow parameter
   is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline tidal volume, and an asleep sleep state is
   determined if the current respiratory rate is the same as or slightly lower than the
   baseline respiratory rate, and/or the current tidal volume is lower than the baseline tidal
30 volume.
   Preferably the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, decreased or
   maintained but is below the baseline flow rate, the current breath flow parameter is a
   current respiratory rate and/or current tidal volume, the baseline breath flow parameter
35 is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline tidal volume, and an awake sleep state is
   determined if the current respiratory rate is higher than the baseline respiratory rate,
   and/or the current tidal volume is lower than the baseline tidal volume.

                                                - 3
   Preferably the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increase, decreased or
   maintained but is below the baseline flow rate, the current breath flow parameter is a
   current respiratory rate and/or current tidal volume, the baseline breath flow parameter
   is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline tidal volume, and an asleep sleep state is
 5 determined if the current respiratory rate is the same as or slightly higher than the
   baseline respiratory rate, and/or the current tidal volume is higher than the baseline tidal
   volume.
   Preferably the method comprises increasing the flow rate provided to the patient if an
10 asleep sleep state is determined, or decreasing the flow rate provided to the patient if an
   awake sleep state is determined.
   Preferably the method comprises a breathing apparatus providing high nasal flow to the
   patient.
15
   Preferably the flow rate at which the fluid is provided to a patient is provided at a fixed or
   varying flow rate during a breath cycle.
   Preferably the fluid is provided to a patient through a patient interface with at least one
20 nasal prong to provide air into the dead space.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a breathing apparatus
   to provide fluid flow to a patient comprising a blower, at least one sensor, and a
   controller configured to operate the blower to generate fluid flow at a flow rate different
25 to a baseline flow rate to provide to a patient, measure using the sensor a current breath
   flow parameter of a patient at the flow rate using the breathing apparatus, the breath
   flow parameter comprising        respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, or one or more
   parameters derived therefrom,        compare the current breath flow parameter to an
   equivalent baseline breath flow parameter of the patient measured previously at the
30 different, baseline, flow rate, determine a sleep state of a patient based on the
   comparison between the current breath flow parameter and the equivalent baseline
   breath flow parameter measured previously at the different, baseline, flow rate, and alter
   operation of the breathing apparatus based on the determination of the sleep state.
35 Preferably the controller is further configured to, prior to measuring a current breath flow
   parameter of a patient, increase, maintain or decrease the flow rate of the fluid provided
   to the patient such that the flow rate is higher than the baseline flow rate.

                                                -4
   Preferably the controller is further configured to, prior to measuring a current breath flow
   parameter of a patient, increase, maintain or decrease the flow rate of the fluid provided
   to the patient such that the flow rate is lower than the baseline flow rate.
 5 Preferably if the sleep state of a patient cannot be determined, then the controller is
   configured to set the current breath flow         parameter as the baseline breath flow
   parameter, after the current breath flow parameter becomes the baseline breath flow
   parameter, measure a current breath flow parameter of a patient, the breath flow
   parameter comprising respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, or one or more parameters
10 derived therefrom, compare the current breath flow parameter to the baseline breath
   flow parameter of the patient measured previously at a different baseline flow rate, and
   alter operation of the breathing apparatus based on the comparison.
   Preferably the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current
15 tidal volume, the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or
   baseline tidal volume, and the controller is configured to operate the blower so that the
   flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, decreased or maintained but is
   above the baseline flow rate, and determine an awake sleep state if the current
   respiratory rate is lower than the baseline respiratory rate, and/or the current tidal
20 volume is higher than the baseline tidal volume.
   Preferably the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current
   tidal volume, the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or
   baseline tidal volume, and the controller is configured to operate the blower so that the
25 flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, or decreased or maintained but
   is above the baseline flow rate, and determine an asleep sleep state if the current
   respiratory rate is the same as or slightly lower than the baseline respiratory rate, and/or
   the current tidal volume is lower than the baseline tidal volume.
30 Preferably the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current
   tidal volume, the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or
   baseline tidal volume, and the controller is configured to operate the blower so that the
   flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, decreased or maintained but is
   below the baseline flow rate, determine an awake sleep state if the current respiratory
35 rate is higher than the baseline respiratory rate, and/or the current tidal volume is lower
   than the baseline tidal volume.

                                                - 5
   Preferably the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increase, decreased or
   maintained but is below the baseline flow rate, the current breath flow parameter is a
   current respiratory rate and/or current tidal volume, the baseline breath flow parameter
   is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline tidal volume, and the controller is configure
 5 to determine an asleep sleep state if the current respiratory rate is the same as or
   slightly higher than the baseline respiratory rate, and/or the current tidal volume is
   higher than the baseline tidal volume.
   Preferably the controller being configured to operate the blower is configured to increase
10 the flow rate provided to the patient if an asleep sleep state is determined, or decrease
   the flow rate provided to the patient if an awake sleep state is determined.
   Preferably the breathing apparatus provides nasal high flow to a patient.
15 Preferably the flow rate at which the fluid is provided to a patient is provided at a fixed or
   varying flow rate during a breath cycle.
   Preferably the fluid is provided to a patient through a patient interface with at least one
   nasal prong to provide air into the dead space.
20
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the following
   drawings of which:
25 Figure la shows a flow therapy breathing apparatus,
   Figure lb shows in schematic form the components of the breathing apparatus in Figure
   1,
   Figure 2 shows a high flow breathing apparatus with the humidifier removed,
   Figure 3 shows a breathing apparatus for providing pressure therapy,
30 Figure 4 shows the breathing apparatus with a humidifier in more detail,
   Figures 5a, 5b shows flow diagrams indicating a method of operating a breathing
   apparatus according to the invention,
   Figure 6 shows a flow diagram of a method of detecting sleep for the purpose of
   operating a breathing apparatus according to the flow diagram in Figure 5,
35 Figure 7 shows a baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume of a patient at nominal flow
   rate,

                                                -6
   Figures 8a, 8c show respiratory rate and tidal volume of an awake patient when flow
   rates of 15 litres per minute, 30 litres per minute and 45 litres per minute are provided
   by the breathing apparatus,
   Figures 8b, 8d show respiratory rate and tidal volume of an asleep patient when flow
 5 rates of 15 litres per minute and 45 litres per minute are provided by the breathing
   apparatus,
   Figures 9A to 9F show the change in respiratory rate and tidal volume for awake patients
   when high flow is provided at various flow rates,
   Figures 10A to 1OF show a change in respiratory rate and title volume when high
10 pressure is provided for awake and asleep patients.
   Figure 11 shows a possible sleep/awake state detection process.
   Figures 12a to 12c show flow traces of example detection events and resulting flow
   variations during operation of a breathing apparatus.
   Figure 13 shows other possible patient interfaces that could be used in the invention.
15 Figure 14 shows the change in various breathing parameters when flow is varied when
   the patient is awake and asleep.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
   In the present specification, breathing       apparatus (also termed breath      system or
20 respiratory assistance apparatus/system) can mean among other things an apparatus for
   providing flow therapy or an apparatus for providing pressure therapy.
   Brief description of breathing apparatus
   Breathing apparatus for providing humidified and heated gases to a patient (either as
25 flow or pressure therapy for example as CPAP for treating OSA or flow therapy for
   treating chronic respiratory disorders) for therapeutic purposes are well known in the art.
   Systems for providing therapy of this type (for example respiratory humidification)
   typically have a structure where gases are delivered to a humidifier chamber from a
   gases source, such as a blower (also known as a compressor, an assisted breathing unit,
30 a fan unit, a flow generator or a pressure generator).     A controller (processor) controls
   operation of the apparatus.    It can have access to an internal or external memory that
   stores instructions and/or data. As the gases (fluid) pass over the hot water, or through
   the heated and humidified air in the humidifier chamber, they become saturated with
   water vapour. The heated and humidified gases are then delivered to a user or patient
35 downstream from the humidifier chamber, via a gases conduit and a user interface.          A
   breathing apparatus to provide flow therapy controls the flow rate of air/oxygen to the
   patient.   A breathing apparatus to provide pressure therapy controls the pressure
   provided to the patient.

                                                -7
   Figures la, lb and 2 show a breathing apparatus for providing flow therapy and/or
   humidification therapy for treating respiratory disorders.     In one form, such breathing
   apparatus can be modular and comprise a humidifier unit and a blower unit that are
 5 separate (modular) items. The modules are connected in series via connection conduits
   to allow gases to pass from the blower unit to the humidifier unit.              In another
   embodiment, the blower unit and humidifier unit are integrated ("integrated unit").        In
   either case, a flow of air (and optionally oxygen) (more generally "fluid flow") is provided
   by a blower unit through a humidification chamber and then through a conduit and
10 patient interface so that the humidified flow is provided to a patient.
   Figures la, lb and show a schematic view of an integrated unit.         A user 1 receives a
   stream of heated and humidified air/oxygen (fluid) 11 from a breathing apparatus 10.
   Air/oxygen flow is provided from blower unit 2a via a connector conduit 10 to a
15 humidifier chamber 4a. The stream of humidified and heated air exits the humidification
   chamber 4a via a user conduit 3, and is provided to the patient or user 1 via a user
   interface 5.   The process is controlled by a controller 12, which includes operating the
   blower to provide the required flow rate of air, operating the humidifier to create the
   required humidity and/or any other operations. The controller can control the blower to
20 provide fluid flow at a fixed or varying rate during the breathing cycle.    The apparatus
   can also have sensors 13a, 13b, such as pressure and/or flow sensors for detecting
   operation of the apparatus and breathing of the patient. These can be on the apparatus
   itself or on the user (patient) interface or both. If on the interface, they can be in any
   suitable location such as on nasal prongs.      These sensors can be used (among other
25 things) to measure or determine respiratory rate and/or tidal volume of breath or
   parameters derived therefrom.      The controller can control operations of the respective
   breathing apparatus including fan speed, humidification and other operations of the
   breathing apparatus such as control based on feedback from sensors 13a, 13b and
   recordal of compliance or other operation or sensor data onto a memory 14.
30
   The chamber can be slid on and off. Figure 2 shows the humidifier chamber removed,
   exposing a heater place 20 and the inlet 6 and outlet 3 to /from the humidifier chamber.
   User controls 22 and user I/O 21 are also shown.
35 The user interface 5 shown in Figures la,           lb a nasal cannula and nasal mask
   respectively, by way of example.     However, it should be noted that in systems of these
   types, a mask that covers the mouth and nose, a full-face mask, a nasal pillow mask, or
   any other suitable user interface could be substituted for the nasal mask shown.            A

                                               -8
   mouth-only interface or oral mask, or a combination of cannula with a nasal/oral/full face
   mask could also be used.      A hybrid mask 132 with a face mask and one or more nasal
   prongs 133 could be used also (see e.g. figure 13), or any other NHF or other interface
   that provides one or more prongs for jetting air. Figure 13 also shows a patient interface
 5 131 that has prongs 130.        Sensors can be placed in or near the prongs to measure
   breathing parameters. Also, the patient or user end of the conduit can be connected to a
   tracheostomy fitting, or an endotracheal intubation. Examples of other masks are shown
   in Figure 13, although these are exemplary only and not limiting.       Having at least one
   nasal prong is particular useful although not necessarily essential for directing air into the
10 nasal cavity to clear the dead space.      This mechanism is useful for the invention as
   described later.     Note, the term breathing apparatus is understood to refer to an
   apparatus (blower and/or humidifier and associated components) with or without a
   patient interface connected to the apparatus.
15 For these integrated systems, the most common mode of operation as controlled by the
   controller is as follows: air is drawn by the blower 2a through an inlet into the casing
   which surrounds and encloses at least the blower portion of the system.           The blower
   generates an air stream from the flow generator outlet and passes this into the
   humidifier chamber 4a.       The air stream is heated and humidified in the humidifier
20 chamber, and exits the humidifier chamber via an outlet 3.     A flexible hose or conduit 3
   is connected either directly or indirectly to the humidifier outlet, and the heated,
   humidified gases are passed to a user 1 via the conduit. This is shown schematically in
   Figure 2.
25 In both modular and integrated systems, the gases provided by the blower unit are
   generally sourced from the surrounding atmosphere.         However, some forms of these
   systems may be configured to allow a supplementary gas (e.g. oxygen) to be blended
   with the atmospheric air for particular therapies.     In such systems, a gases conduit
   supplying the supplemental gas is typically either connected directly to the humidifier
30 chamber or elsewhere on the high pressure (flow outlet) side of the blower unit, or
   alternatively to the inlet side of the blower unit as described in WO 2007/004898.        This
   type of respiratory assistance system is generally used where a patient or user requires
   oxygen therapy, with the oxygen being supplied from a central gases source.                The
   oxygen from the gases source is blended with the atmospheric air to increase the oxygen
35 fraction before delivery to the patient.     Such systems enable oxygen therapy to be
   combined with high flow humidification therapy for the treatment of diseases such as
   COPD.     In such therapies, the oxygen fraction being delivered to the patient be known
   and controlled.     The oxygen fraction being delivered to the patient can be manually

                                                 - 9
   calculated or estimated based on a printed look-up table that sets out various oxygen
   fractions that have been pre-calculated based on a range of oxygen flow rates supplied
   from the central gas source and a range of flow rates generated by the blower unit.
   Alternatively, the oxygen fraction can be measured with an oxygen sensor as described
 5 in the co-pending 61/620595.
   Figures 3 and 4 show a breathing apparatus providing pressure therapy (such as CPAP)
   to treat OSA or similar.    In one form, such a breathing apparatus can be modular that
   comprise a humidifier unit and a blower unit that are separate (modular) items.            In
10 another embodiment, the blower unit and humidifier unit are integrated ("integrated
   unit").  In either case, pressure is provided by a blower unit through a humidification
   chamber and then through a conduit and patient interface so that the humidified
   pressure is provided to a patient.
15 For example, Figure 3 shows an integrated breathing apparatus for providing pressure
   therapy, e.g. a CPAP apparatus.       Figure 4 shows the components in schematic form of
   the integrated unit. The blower unit 2a and the humidifier unit 4a are contained within
   the same housing.      A typical integrated system consists of a main blower unit 2a or
   assisted breathing unit that provides a pressurised gases flow, and a humidifier unit 4a
20 that mates with or is otherwise rigidly connected to the blower unit. For example, the
   humidifier unit is mated to the blower unit by slide-on or push connection, which ensures
   that the humidifier unit is rigidly connected to and held firmly in place on the main blower
   unit. Referring to Figure 4, a user 1 receives a stream of heated and humidified air from
   a modular respiratory assistance system.        Pressurised air is provided from an assisted
25 breathing unit or blower unit 2a via a connector conduit to the humidifier chamber 4a. A
   controller 12 is provided to control operation of the apparatus. The stream of humidified,
   heated and pressurised air exits the humidification chamber 4a via a user conduit 3, and
   is provided to the patient or user 1 via a user interface 5.    The apparatus can also have
   sensors 13a, 13b, such as pressure and/or flow sensors for detecting operation of the
30 apparatus and breathing of the patient. These can be on the apparatus itself or on the
   user (patient) interface. If on the interface, they can be in any suitable location such as
   on nasal prongs.      These sensors can be used (among other things) to measure or
   determine    respiratory rate and/or tidal volume of breath           or parameters  derived
   therefrom. The controller can control operations of the respective breathing apparatus
35 including fan speed, humidification and other operations of the breathing apparatus such
   as control based on feedback from sensor and recordal of compliance or other operation
   or sensor data onto a memory 14.

                                               - 10
   US 7,111,624 includes a detailed description of an integrated system. A 'slide-on' water
   chamber is connected to a blower unit in use. A variation of this design is a slide-on or
   clip-on design where the chamber is enclosed inside a portion of the integrated unit in
   use. An example of this type of design is shown in WO 2004/112873, which describes a
 5 blower, or flow generator, and an associated humidifier.
   Description of operation
   In a breathing apparatus that provides a flow therapy (usually NHF), generally the higher
   the flow rate of the air/oxygen provided to the patient, the better the therapy that is
10 provided to them.     However, while a patient is awake providing a flow rate that is too
   high can be uncomfortable for the patient. Also it causes turbulence in the nose during
   expiration, which is noisy and can prevent them from sleeping. While asleep, generally it
   is desirable to have a higher flow rate to improve C02 washout and also to lower the
   chance of obstructive events during sleep. Generally, in traditional flow therapy, a rate is
15 set that will provide the required level of therapy, typically 10-60 Litres/min, while a
   keeping the flow rate as low as possible to reduce the undesirable effects, taking into
   account the desired awake and sleep requirements. Notwithstanding the above, in other
   cases, upon detecting that the patient has gone to sleep or alternatively woken up it may
   be desirable to vary the flow rate in some manner (e.g. by ramping at it either up or
20 down) that is appropriate to provide a flow rate that will assist the patient in the current
   detected sleep/awake state. Therefore, in general terms it is desirable to vary the flow
   rate (or other operations of the breathing apparatus) provided to the patient based on
   their awake/asleep state or the change of that state.
25 The present invention relates to an apparatus and method of control that detects
   whether a patient is awake or asleep and changes therapy mode according to the sleep
   state.    By way of an example, the apparatus controls the flow rate, temperature,
   humidity, or air/oxygen fraction to the patient according to their sleep state and the
   desired flow for such states. In an embodiment of the present invention, the apparatus
30 is controlled to keep flow rate lower while the patient is awake, and higher while they are
   asleep.    Other flow variations can be provided also depending on the sleep stage and
   breathing pattern.    In general terms, the controller is programmed in a manner to be
   described below to carry out the detection of when a patient using the breathing
   apparatus is awake or asleep, and to change operation (e.g. flow rate, temperature, 02
35 fraction delivered) of the breathing apparatus based on whether a patient is awake or
   asleep.

                                              - 11
   In general terms, in accordance with the present specification, low flow air/oxygen rate
   (termed "low flow") can be considered anything that is not "high flow".          A high flow
   air/oxygen rate ("high flow") can be considered any flow rate where heating and/or
   humidification are required for comfort and/or therapy. The transition between high flow
 5 and low flow could be anywhere between 0 - 60 liters per minute, depending on the
   application. For example, for children, a high flow might be considered to start at as low
   as 1-2 litres per minute. These are not fixed definitions and the delineation between low
   flow and high flow can be anywhere.      In this specification low flow is normally used to
   indicate a flow rate that is lower than a high flow rate and is of a rate that is an
10 acceptable level that does not provide too much             discomfort or other discussed
   disadvantages to a patient when awake.       High flow rate can mean any flow rate that is
   higher than a low flow rate and is not constrained by the requirement to reduce
   discomfort or other disadvantages for a patient provided by high flow.          It should be
   noted, that if a flow rate is denoted as "higher" in this specification, that does not
15 necessarily mean it is a high flow rate, but just a flow rate that is higher relative to
   another referenced flow rate.
   Figure 5a shows a flow diagram showing the method of operation of the breathing
   apparatus that provides flow therapy. The process or controller can be programmed to
20 carry out this method. First, the controller operates the breathing apparatus to provide a
   nominal or typical flow rate when the patient is awake. This flow rate can be termed a
   "low flow rate". This flow rate can be set in the usual manner for a breathing apparatus
   of this nature and can be of a suitable rate to provide required therapy while still
   providing the desired comfort for the patient and reducing disadvantages of a high flow
25 rate.
   For paediatric patients, depending on the ages, 3-5 L/min can be considered as high flow
   and low flow could be any flow rate less than 3 L/min.      Possible adult patient flow rates
   were mentioned previously.
30
   The controller operates the breathing apparatus to provide the low flow rate preferably in
   this range, step 50. At a suitable point, the controller then implements the sleep state
   detection method, step 52. This could occur at any suitable point in the operation of the
   breathing apparatus, such as time based (periodically, at a particular time), or based on
35 some physiological or other trigger (such as breathing or another "preliminary" detection
   routine for providing an indication of whether a patient is awake or asleep).      The sleep
   detection process will be described below in more detail with reference to Figure 6. If the
   controller determines that the patient is still awake, then the controller continues to

                                               - 12
   operate the apparatus to provide the standard, nominal or low flow rate (low flow mode),
   step 50.   If, however, the controller determines that the patient has fallen asleep, step
   53, then it alters operation of the breathing apparatus. For example, the apparatus
   increases the flow delivered to the target (high) flow rate (high flow mode), step 51. As
 5 another example, the apparatus may also change the temperature when in sleep mode.
   This increased flow rate can be termed a "high flow rate" and can be, for example above
   25 litres per minute.
   Irrespective of whether the controller maintains the breathing apparatus in the low flow
10 rate mode, step 50, or operates the apparatus in the high flow rate mode, step 51, the
   sleep detection process will be carried out again, step 52, at another suitable point based
   on the desired trigger. Therefore, for example, after shifting operation to the high flow
   mode, the controller will detect when a patient awakes again, step 52, and control
   operation of the breathing apparatus to return it to the low flow mode, step 50. As such,
15 at any time during operation of the breathing apparatus it will be operated to provide low
   flow when the patient is asleep or high flow (or other change in operation) when the
   patient is awake.    Clearly, there might be times before the detection algorithm operates
   within a low flow mode even when the patient has fallen asleep, and likewise stays in a
   high flow mode even though the patient has awoken as there could be some lag between
20 changing states.
   Figure 5a shows a typical operation of the device, which commences with the patient in
   an awake state and the apparatus providing a nominal/low flow and then altering the
   flow to a high rate upon detecting sleep, or retaining the apparatus at the low/nominal
25 flow delivery rate if the patient remains awake.        Figure 5b shows a more general
   operation in which the apparatus could be in any state (nominal flow or high flow
   delivery) and the patient could be in any state (a weight/asleep), step 55. Upon detecting
   a change in sleep state (according for example to figure 6), step 56, the flow rate is
   altered in any suitable manner, step 57, either up or down for either the awake or the
30 sleep state. The shows the more general operation in which upon detecting a change in
   sleep state, the operation of that apparatus can be altered in any manner appropriately.
   Referring to Figure 6, the detection process (test mode), step 52, forming part of the
   process of Figure 5 is now described in further detail. The sleep detection process can be
35 instigated by the controller at any suitable time during the operation of the breathing
   apparatus.     For example, it may be triggered periodically e.g. every 30 minutes, or it
   may be triggered based on physiological data from the patient or operation data from the
   breathing apparatus. It could alternatively be triggered at certain times of the day. Any

                                               - 13
   other possible triggers could be considered by those skilled in the art, and those
   mentioned should not be considered limiting. A possible trigger will be described further
   later.
 5 The general process for determining whether a patient is awake or asleep is based on a
   breathing phenomenon that has been determined by the present inventors.              When a
   patient breathes they will have a baseline breath flow at a baseline flow rate, comprising
   among other things a breathing (respiratory) rate and signals indicative of tidal volume
   such as shown in Figure 7. The patient will have a (different) baseline breath flow (e.g.
10 respiratory rate and tidal volume) at a particular flow rate when they are awake and
   when they are asleep.       Figure 7 shows the baseline tidal volume when the patient is
   awake, by way of example, and it will be appreciated that a similar baseline graph could
   be produced for when the patient is asleep. This baseline breathing flow might be in the
   presence of oxygen/air flow provided at a baseline flow rate, such as a nominal rate (e.g.
15 15 Litres/minute)     by a breathing    apparatus,    or at no applied      flow (that is,   0
   litres/minute).   The baseline breath flow parameters such as respiratory rate and tidal
   volume can be determined at any suitable time, such as at a particular flow rate during a
   calibration routine prior to actual use of the apparatus or at another time prior to actual
   therapeutic use of the apparatus, or the baseline breath flow parameters could be
20 determined during actual use of the apparatus at the flow rate currently provided by the
   apparatus at that time. If the flow rate of air/oxygen delivered to the patient by the
   breathing apparatus is increased or higher than the baseline flow rate, the present
   inventors have determined the following.         First, if the patient is awake, then the
   respiratory rate (breathing rate) decreases/is lower and the signals indicative of tidal
25 volume in increases/      is higher (compared    to the baseline respiratory rate/signals
   indicative of tidal volume when the patient is awake.)        Alternatively, if the patient is
   asleep, the breathing rate will remain the same (or possibly decrease slightly) but the
   signals indicative of tidal volume will decrease/be lower (compared to the baseline
   respiratory rate/ signals indicative of tidal volume when the patient is asleep.)         The
30 respiratory rates and signals indicative of tidal volumes can be measured by the
   apparatus using the flow and/or pressure sensors, and this information processed by the
   controller.  Waveforms (such as that in Figure 7) show the respiratory rates and signals
   indicative of tidal volumes that can be generated from the sensor information.       Any one
   of the sensors can be positioned within the apparatus or at/near the patient interfaces.
35 An arrangement for sensing respiratory rates and tidal volumes is described below.
   Figure 8a (and shown in more detail in Figure 8c) shows schematically in a tidal volume
   versus time trace what happens to the respiratory rate and tidal volume of an awake

                                              - 14
   patient compared to the baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume (of the patient when
   awake) when the breathing apparatus is controlled to deliver a higher flow rate than the
   baseline flow rate (in this case a nominal 0 litres/minute).   In this case the higher flow
   rates are 15 litres per minute, 30 litres per minute and 45 litres per minute. As can be
 5 seen, at a flow rate higher than the baseline flow rate in Figure 7, the respiratory rate is
   lower/decreases (time between peaks/troughs in the trace increases) and tidal volume is
   higher (increases) compared to the baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume at the
   baseline flow rate when the patient is awake. The phenomenon is more pronounced for
   higher flow rates.
10
   Conversely, Figures 8b and Figure 8d show what happens to the respiratory rate and
   tidal volume of an asleep patient compared to the baseline respiratory rate and tidal
   volume (when the patient is asleep) when the breathing apparatus is controlled to deliver
   a higher flow rate than the baseline flow rate. As can be seen in Figure 8b, the flow rate
15 increases from 15 litres per minute (baseline) to 30 litres per minute.      At a flow rate
   higher than the baseline flow rate (transition is approximately at point A), the breathing
   rate stays the same (approximately - that is, the time between peaks/troughs stays
   approximately the same) but the tidal volume is lower (decreases) compared to the
   baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume at the baseline flow rate. This effect is more
20 visible in Figure 8d which shows (when the patient is asleep) the decrease of flow rate
   (from 15 to 0 L per minute) at point C resulting afterwards in an increase in tidal volume,
   and conversely an increase in flow rate at point D (from 0 to 15 L per minute) resulting
   in a decrease in tidal volume The phenomenon is more pronounced for higher flow rates.
25 Figures 9a to 9f show the decrease in respiratory rate (RR) and increase in tidal volume
   (VT) demonstrated by an awake patient when the flow rate delivered by the breathing
   apparatus is increased to 15 litres per minute, 30 litres per minute and 45 litres per
   minute respectively over the baseline flow rate (0 litres/minute in this case) when the
   patient is awake.   Figures 10a to 10f show the same phenomenon for when a patient is
30 awake and for when they are asleep. Figure 14 shows yet further schematic examples of
   other parameters and their change when flow rate increases, including Tidal volume,
   minute ventilation (MV) and expiratory time (TE).
   Figures 7 to 10f and 14 show the change in respiratory rate and tidal volume versus a
35 baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume (at a baseline flow rate) for a particular sleep
   state when a flow rate is increased from the baseline flow rate to a higher flow fate. The
   Figures are schematic in nature so show trends and not absolute values in all cases.      It
   will be appreciated that the converse phenomenon will be observed if the baseline flow

                                                   - 15
    rate is higher than the changed flow rate. For example, a baseline respiratory rate and
   tidal volume could be measured for a patient (either awake or asleep) at a baseline flow
    rate of example 15 L per minute, and then the flow rate drop to e.g. 0 L per minute and
   the respiratory rate and tidal volume measured. If the respiratory rate stays same and
 5 the tidal volume increases, it is an indication that the patient is asleep. Conversely, if
   tidal volume decreases this can be an indication that the patient is awake. This
    phenomenon (e.g. looking at changes in respiratory rate and/or tidal volume when flow
    rate is reduced from a higher baseline flow rate to a lower flow rate) could also be used
   to detect changes in the sleep state of the patient.
10
   The phenomenon occurs due to the following.                Nasal High flow increases expiration
    resistance and      decreases    inspiration  resistance,   and   it immediately   slows down
    respiratory rate while the patient is awake.        During sleep the change of resistance does
    not play a role any more and clearing of dead space in the nasal pharynx plays the major
15  role in the physiological response to nasal high flow.          Reduction of dead space even
   without increase of tidal volume can significantly decrease the dead space volume        (VD) to
   Tidal volume    (VT)  ratio and increase ventilatory efficiency. This is the leading mechanism
   during sleep. During wakefulness, the increase of tidal volume apart from clearing dead
   space decreases the VD/VT ratio even more significantly usually followed by a decrease of
20  respiratory rate and as a result minute ventilation is not changed or is slightly increased.
    During sleep, breathing is shallow and ventilation is more efficient. Increasing flow can
   jet air into the dead space to flush the dead space and produce the phenomenon from
   which sleep state can be detected.           Decreasing flow can provide the opposite effect,
   which can also be used to detect sleep states. Providing air via at least one nasal prong
25 is more desirable, as it is more likely to cause the change in the dead space which
    produces the phenomenon, although using a patient interface with at least one nasal
    prong is not necessarily essential.        "Dead space" as used herein can refer to both
   apparatus dead space and anatomical dead space. Apparatus dead space refers to zones
   in any additional equipment such as mask and circuits where the expired gas can be re
30  breathed again.     Anatomical dead space comprises areas in the nose, pharynx, trachea
   and bronchi where C02 levels can build up. The high flow nasal interface can provide
   improved flushing of the anatomical dead space.
    Based on the determined           phenomenon,      the controller of the apparatus can be
35  programmed to carry out the sleep state detection method shown generally in Figure 6 to
   determine whether the patient is awake or asleep.                 In one sleep state detection
   embodiment, first, the controller is triggered or receives an internal/external trigger to
   carry out a sleep/wakefulness detection process 59. A baseline respiratory rate and tidal

                                               - 16
   volume is measured for a patient for each of the awake and sleep states at a baseline
   flow rate.   The baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume could be measured for a
   baseline flow rate either before operation of the apparatus during the manufacturing
   calibration process, or during use of the apparatus at some time prior to conducting the
 5 sleep state detection process, step 60. If the baseline breath flow parameters are
   measured during use of the breathing apparatus, they may actually be measured on
   multiple occasions, and the awake state and the sleep state baseline breathing flow
   parameters might be measured at different times.         Where the baseline breath flow
   parameters are measured during use of the breathing apparatus, the baseline flow rate
10 will be the flow rate being provided by the apparatus at the time of measurement.
   Baseline measurements are stored where appropriate in the controller or other memory
   of the apparatus.    If the baseline breath flow parameters measured during a calibration
   process prior to use of the apparatus are used, the baseline flow rate can be a suitable
   nominal flow rate such as 0 litres per minute or alternatively some other low flow rate.
15 The measurement can take place using e.g. sensors in the apparatus and/or patient
   interface to measure breath flow such as described below.       For this embodiment, the
   baseline breathing flow parameters are measured during a calibration process at a
   nominal rate.
20 The breathing apparatus is then operated to increase the delivered flow rate to a higher
   (test mode) flow rate, step 61. This could be any suitable rate higher than the baseline
   flow rate, e.g. 15, 30 or 45 litres per minute or even several different rates could be
   applied or provided to the patient and it may not be a high flow rate. For example, if the
   patient is currently awake, and the apparatus is operating in the low flow mode, then the
25 increased flow rate will be higher than the low flow rate (whatever that may be).
   Alternatively, if the apparatus is currently operating in a high flow mode (e.g. on the
   basis that previously the patient has been determined to be asleep and the flow rate
   increased accordingly) then the increased flow rate should be higher than that current
   (high flow mode) flow rate.
30
   The controller then determines from the sensors the respiratory rate and tidal volume of
   the patient at the increased flow rate. This can be by way of e.g. flow and/or pressure
   sensors that measure the breath flow of the patient through the conduit and/or interface.
35 The respiratory rate and tidal volume at the elevated flow rate is then compared to the
   respiratory rate and tidal volume of the baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume, step
   62.    In making the comparison, the appropriate sleep state baseline parameter is
   selected (namely, the awake baseline or asleep baseline) that can be compared to the

                                              - 17
   current respiratory rate and tidal volume in the current sleep state. Possibly, the baseline
   sleep state parameter for comparison is selected based on what the likely current sleep
   state is. In one alternative, an assumption can be made about the current sleep state or
   in another alternative a preliminary indication of the current sleep state might have been
 5 received as a result of the trigger determination. In yet another alternative, the
   respiratory rate and tidal volume might be compared against the baseline for both the
   sleep and awake state, if the actual current state cannot be assumed.      If the respiratory
   rate is lower/decreases and/or the signals indicative of tidal volume are higher/increase
   (e.g. by a threshold value) in each case with respect to a wakefulness sleep state
10 baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, then the controller determines that the
   patient is still awake, step 63a.       Alternatively,  if the controller determines that
   respiratory rate has stayed the same (or decreased slightly) and/or the tidal volume has
   decreased compared to the asleep baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, then the
   controller determines that the patient is asleep, step 63b. The processor then uses this
15 determination in step 53 of Figure 5 to determine further operation of the device.         For
   example, the information is used to vary the flow rate (either up, down or kept constant)
   provided by the apparatus accordingly, as for example described in figures 5a and 5b.
   In an alternative to the embodiment above, the flow rate might not be increased during
20 the sleep state detection process, but rather decreased (or even remain the same).          If
   the detection flow rate is still higher than the baseline flow rate, then the same
   phenomenon occurs and the sleep state can be detected by comparing the current
   respiratory rate and/or tidal volume to the baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume.
   In an alternative, the respiratory rate and/or signals indicative of tidal volume at an
25 increased rate could be compared against another reference, such as the respiratory rate
   and/or tidal volume of a patient at a particular flow rate when they are known to be
   awake.     Here, sleep might be detected when breathing rate increases (over a slowed
   awake breathing      rate), or expiratory time shortens.      Many alternatives could be
   conceived also.
30
   The description above relates to control of the apparatus based on detecting a sleep state
   by increasing flow rate from a lower flow rate to a higher flow rate and comparing the
   breath flow parameters to baseline breath flow parameters.          In another sleep state
   detection embodiment, the detection of sleep state can be determined using the same
35 phenomenon, but by decreasing the flow rate from the current flow rate. Referring again
   to Figure 6, the alternative embodiment will be described. First, the controller is triggered
   to carry out a sleep/wakefulness detection process 59. A baseline respiratory rate and
   tidal volume is measured for a patient for each of the awake and sleep states at a

                                               - 18
   baseline flow rate. The baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume could be measured for
   a baseline flow rate before operation of the apparatus during the manufacturing
   calibration process, step 60. The breathing apparatus is then operated to decrease the
   delivered flow rate to a lower (test mode) flow rate, step 61. This could be any suitable
 5 rate lower than the baseline flow rate, e.g. 15, 30 or 45 litres per minute or even several
   different rates could be applied or provided to the patient and it may not be a low flow
   rate.
   The controller then determines from the sensors the respiratory rate and tidal volume of
10 the patient at the increased flow rate. This can be by way of e.g. flow and/or pressure
   sensors that measure the breath flow of the patient through the conduit and/or interface.
   The respiratory rate and/or tidal volume at the elevated flow rate are then compared to
   the respiratory rate and/or tidal volume of the baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal
   volume, step 62.      In making the comparison, the appropriate sleep state baseline
15 breathing parameter is selected (namely, the awake baseline or asleep baseline) that can
   be compared to the current respiratory rate and tidal volume in the current sleep state.
   Possibly, the baseline sleep state for comparison is selected based on what the likely
   current sleep state is. In one alternative, an assumption can be made about the current
   sleep state or in another alternative a preliminary indication of the current sleep state
20 might have been received as a result of the trigger determination. In yet another
   alternative, the respiratory rate and tidal volume might be compared against the baseline
   for both the sleep in awake state, if the actual current state cannot be assumed.       If the
   respiratory rate is higher or increases and/or the signals indicative of tidal volume is
   lower or decreases (e.g. by a threshold value) in each case with respect to a wakefulness
25 sleep state baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume then the controller determines
   that the patient is still awake, step 63a.   Alternatively, if the controller determines that
   respiratory rate has stayed the same and/or the tidal volume is higher/has increased
   compared to the asleep baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, then the controller
   determines that the patient is asleep, step 63b.            The processor then uses this
30 determination in step 53 of Figure 5 to determine further operation of the device.         For
   example, the information is used to vary the flow rate (either up, down or kept constant)
   provided by the apparatus accordingly, as for example described in figures 5 and 5B.
   In an alternative, the respiratory rate and/or signals indicative of tidal volume at an
35 increased rate could be compared against another reference, such as the respiratory rate
   and/or tidal volume of a patient at a particular flow rate when they are known to be
   awake.    Here, sleep might be detected when breathing rate increases (over a slowed
   awake breathing     rate), or expiratory time shortens.          Many alternatives could be

                                                - 19
   conceived also. In the embodiments described above, a preliminary test could be carried
   out to determine an initial indication of the sleep state and therefore which sleep state
   (awake or asleep) baseline breathing flow parameters are used for the comparison.          For
   example, in the preliminary test, the current respiratory rate and/or tidal volume are
 5 measured and compared against the respiratory rate and/or tidal volume measured at a
   previous time.    If some change in respiratory rate and/or tidal volume is apparent, then
   this can provide a preliminary indication of what the sleep state might be. This can the
   be used to select the either the baseline breathing flow parameters for an awake patient,
   or the baseline breathing flow parameters for the asleep patient for comparison to the
10 measured respiratory rate and/or tidal volume during the sleep state detection method
   proper, which will confirm whether or not the preliminary indication is correct.
   In yet another sleep state detection embodiment, a similar approach is taken to the two
   embodiments      described   above, except the      baseline breath    flow   parameters are
15 determined during actual use of the apparatus.        Referring again to Figure 6, first, the
   controller   is triggered   or  receives   an   internal/external  trigger  to  carry  out   a
   sleep/wakefulness detection process 59. A baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume is
   obtained by measuring the current respiratory rate and/or tidal volume at the current
   flow rate being provided by the apparatus, step 60. The measurement can take place
20 using e.g. sensors in the apparatus to measure breath flow such as described below.
   The breathing apparatus is then operated to increase the delivered flow rate to a higher
   (test mode) flow rate, step 61. This could be any suitable rate higher than the baseline
   flow rate (which is the previous flow rate prior to increase), e.g. 15, 30 or 45 litres per
   minute or even several different rates could be applied or provided to the patient and it
25 may not be a high flow rate.
   The controller then determines from the sensors the respiratory rate and tidal volume of
   the patient at the increased flow rate. This can be by way of e.g. flow and/or pressure
   sensors that measure the breath flow of the patient through the conduit and/or interface.
30 The respiratory rate and/or tidal volume at the elevated flow rate are then compared to
   the respiratory rate and tidal volume of the baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume,
   step 62 (measured just before flow rate increase).          The sleep state of the baseline
   respiratory breath flow parameters might not be known, but this is not essential. If the
   respiratory rate is lower/decreases and/or the signals indicative of tidal volume are
35 higher/increases (e.g.    by a threshold value) in each case with respect to baseline
   respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, then the controller determines that the patient is
   still awake, step 63a. Alternatively, if the controller determines that respiratory rate has
   stayed the same and/or the tidal volume has decreased/is lower compared to the asleep

                                               - 20
   baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, then the controller determines that the
   patient is asleep, step 63b.      If the change in respiratory rate and/or tidal volume
   compared to the baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume is inconclusive, the process
   is carried out again, path 64. That is, the measured respiratory rate and/or tidal volume
 5 at the increased flow rate become the new baseline breath flow parameters, step 60. The
   flow rate is then increased further, step 61 and the respiratory rate and/or tidal volume
   as measured at that the further increased flow rate are compared against the new
   baseline breath flow parameters, step 62. Whether the patient is asleep or awake is
   determined in the same manner as described above, step 63, by looking at the change in
10 current respiratory rate and/or tidal volume versus the baseline respiratory rate and/or
   tidal volume. This process continues, steps 60-63 and path 64, until there is a change in
   respiratory rate and/or tidal volume that is conclusive of the sleep state of the patient
   be awake or asleep, step 63a, 63b. This periodic or continuous testing and further
   increasing of the flow rate enables the determination of the sleep state to be made, even
15 if the sleep state changes. For example, if prior to increasing the flow rate the patient is
   awake and the baseline breath flow parameters are measured, but then during the
   testing process the patient changes state from awake to sleep, the change in parameters
   might be inconclusive because breathing flow parameters of an asleep state are being
   compared to the previous baseline breath flow parameters taken previously when the
20 patient was awake. However, if the process is continued multiple times, such that the
   current breath flow parameters become the baseline parameters, the flow is increased
   and then new breath flow parameters measured, eventually the baseline parameters and
   the current measured breath flow parameters will be for the same sleep state and
   therefore a conclusive determination can be made by comparing them. The processor
25 then uses this determination in step 53/56 of Figure 5a or 5b to determine further
   operation of the device.     For example, the information is used to vary the flow rate
   (either up, down or kept constant) provided by the apparatus accordingly, as for example
   described in figures 5 and 5B.
30 In yet a further sleep state detection embodiment, the process described above could be
   carried out, except that rather than increasing the flow rate during the test, the flow rate
   is decreased so the flow rate is lower than that for the baseline breath flow parameters,
   step 61. If the respiratory rate is higher or increases and/or the signals indicative of tidal
   volume are lower or decrease by a threshold value in each case with respect to the
35 baseline breath flow parameters, then the controller determines that the patient is still
   awake, step 63a.     Alternatively, if the controller determines that respiratory rate has
   stayed the same and/or the tidal volume is higher/has increased compared to the
   baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, then the controller determines that the

                                               - 21
   patient is asleep, step 63b.    If the result is inconclusive, steps 60-63 are repeated via
   path 64. The processor then uses this determination in step 53 of Figure 5 to determine
   further operation of the device.     For example, the information is used to vary the flow
   rate (either up, down or kept constant) provided by the apparatus accordingly, as for
 5 example described in figures 5 and 5B.
   A possible embodiment of operating a breathing apparatus according to the general
   method described with respect to Figures 5 and 6 is now described with reference to
   Figure 11 which shows one possible sleep detection process in further detail.         First, the
10 process operates the breathing apparatus to provide a fixed low flow rate to the patient,
   step 110.   At a suitable time (for example when the sleep state detection method is to
   start) the processor operates the breathing apparatus to increase the flow rate at a fixed
   (or optionally variable) rate to provide a ramp from a low flow rate to a target flow rate,
   step 111. This could preferably be provided over a fixed period, for example 30 minutes.
15 Each increase during the ramp could be considered the increase in flow rate shown in
   step 61 in Figure 6.
   Periodically or at other suitable times or trigger points, the respiratory rate (RR) and
   signals indicative of tidal volume (VT) of the breath flow of the patient at the increased
20 flow rate can be compared to the baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, step 112.
   During the comparison step, the respiratory rate is measured. If the respiratory rate is
   slower than the baseline respiratory rate, then this can be a first indication that the
   patient is still awake. In addition or alternatively the tidal volume can be measured and
   compared against the baseline tidal volume.          If this is higher than the baseline tidal
25 volume, then this can be an indication that the patient is still awake.       If the measured
   respiratory rate is the same as the baseline respiratory rate, then this can be a first
   indication that the patient is asleep. In addition or alternatively the tidal volume can be
   measured and compared against the selected baseline tidal volume. If this is lower than
   the selected base line tidal volume, then this can be an indication that the patient is
30 asleep. The respiratory rate can be measured with a flow sensor and possibly the
   measurement improved with a flow sensor and pressure sensor. Additionally, a pressure
   sensor can be used to measure tidal volume.         In the alternative, if the respiratory rate
   remains unchanged compared to the baseline, then this is an initial indication that the
   patient is now asleep. In addition or alternatively, tidal volume can be compared against
35 the baseline and if it has decreased, this can be an indication that the patient is asleep.
   Therefore, using one or more of the change in respiratory rate and the change in tidal
   volume against baseline breathing parameters, the awake or sleep state can be detected.

                                                - 22
   Various combinations of comparisons could be used to detect the sleep state. For
   example, the current respiratory rate and tidal volume could be compared against the
   awake baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume and also compared against the asleep
   baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume, and based on the relative differences the
 5 sleep or awake state can be determined. It may be necessary to only use one of these
   baseline comparisons.    Also, it might not be necessary to use both respiratory rate and
   tidal volume parameters, but just one of them. For example if the breathing rate slows
   with respect to the awake baseline respiratory rate then the awake state is detected and
   if it stays the same against the sleep baseline respiratory rate, then the sleep state is
10 detected (compared to a baseline). Alternatively if the tidal rate increase with respect to
   the awake baseline tidal volume, an awake state is detected, or if it decreases compared
   to the baseline tidal volume, then a sleep state is detected.      Other variations could be
   conceived.
15 In an alternative, the respiratory rate would be compared not to the baseline but to the
   awake respiratory rate.     For example, if upon increasing flow rate the respiratory rate
   stays the same with respect to the baseline, this might mean it actually increases with
   respect to the awake breathing respiratory rate.          Therefore if the respiratory rate
   increases upon increased flow, (increased flow delays expiration so usually reduces
20 respiratory rate) this could indicate a sleep state on the assumption that prior to the
   increased flow there was an awake state. Similarly, a decrease in expiratory period over
   the low volume flow breathing could be an indication of a sleep state.            Many other
   combinations and permutations of this are possible. It will be appreciated that it is not
   necessary for the tidal volume and the respiratory rate to both be considered in
25 determining sleep state.
   Once a comparison has been made and a determination has been made that the patient
   is in an awake state (either still or has changed state), then the ramp continues, step
   111, and then comparison, step 112, 113 occurs again at the next triggered time. (Once
30 a comparison is conducted, the measured respiratory rate and/or tidal volume become
   the baseline breathing parameters for the next period detection that is carried out at the
   next trigger point.)     Alternatively, if a sleep state is detected, step 113 then the
   controller operates the breathing apparatus to instigate a second ramp that increases the
   flow rate at a higher rate than the first ramp, step 114.      This is on the basis that now
35 that the patient is asleep, it is desirable to increase the flow rate to the high rate and to
   do this as quickly as possible. The increase is preferably not done as a step change, so
   as to avoid a change that might awake the patient or otherwise provide them with

                                              - 23
   discomfort. The comparison step can then continue, step 112, to check when the patient
   awakes again.
   The above description is based on the generally assumption that operation of the
 5 apparatus starts when the patient is wake. This may or may not be the case.          In fact,
   flow therapy can be provided continually meaning there is no defined start point where
   the patient is awake or asleep. Therefore, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art
   can relate to operation of a breathing apparatus at any point in the awake sleep cycle
   and the apparatus can detect sleep/awake states at any point and change operation
10 accordingly as necessary.
   Further, the above example relates to an apparatus that operates a flow rate ramp at the
   beginning of therapy - as one possible example.       This is not limiting and is by way of
   example only.     The sleep state detection method could be used to trigger any suitable
15 operation/change in operation of a breathing apparatus.      More generally, at any time of
   operation of the apparatus (either while the patient is awake or asleep and irrespective of
   whether the apparatus is providing therapeutic or sub-therapeutic flow) the apparatus
   can detect whether a patient is awake or asleep as described above and then alter the
   operation of the apparatus according, such as increasing or decreasing or maintaining the
20 flow, either in therapeutic or non-therapeutic modes/flow rates. One option might be to
   control minute ventilation (MV) in order to achieve a reduction work of breathing.         A
   controller would adjust the flow to maintain minimal MV.          The flow setting can be
   predetermined in the range of e.g. 10-35 litres per minute and the controller can adjust
   flow depending on calculated MV.
25
   Figures 12a to 12c shows some more general operating events by way of example. Each
   figure shows the flow rate provided by the breathing apparatus to a patient and how this
   varies over time based on various detection events. It will be appreciated that the flow
   rates indicated are exemplary only and should not be considered limiting.
30
   Figure 12a shows a first flow rate trace showing various points during the operation of a
   breathing apparatus at which the sleep state is detected and the operation of the
   breathing apparatus is varied (in this case by varying of the flow rate provided). The
   breathing apparatus starts operation and provides an initial flow rate of 10 litres per
35 minute, which could be sub-therapeutic and is provided while the patient is awake. At
   point 1, the controller of the breathing apparatus is triggered to carry out the sleep state
   detection method. The controller ramps up the flow rate and then at point 2 measures
   the respiratory rate and/or tidal volume of the patient, and then compares this to the

                                               - 24
   relevant baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume of the patient. In this example, it is
   determined that the patient is not yet asleep and so the breathing apparatus operates to
   reduce the flow rate down to the initial flow rate of 10 litres per minute.      Some time
   later, at point 3 again the breathing apparatus is triggered to carry out the detection
 5 method. It ramps the flow rate to a higher level, and then at point 4 measures the
   respiratory rate and/or tidal volume of the patient and compares this to the relevant
   baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume of the patient. In this example, the apparatus
   determines that the patient is now a sleep and ramps the flow rate up to the therapeutic
   level suitable for asleep patient, in this case 20 litres per minute. The apparatus keeps
10 providing a flow rate at this level until it is again triggered to carry out another sleep
   state detection at point 5. In this case, when conducting the test, rather than increasing
   the flow rate further, the controller instead decreases the flow rate. At point 6 the
   respiratory rate and/or tidal volume is measured, and then compared against the
   relevant baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume. In this example, it is determined that
15 the patient is still asleep and the flow rate is therefore returned to the therapeutic flow
   rate level of 20 litres per minute.
   This flow rate is provided until the apparatus is again triggered to determine whether the
   patient is awake or asleep at point 7. In this case, by way of demonstration, the
20 breathing apparatus increases the flow rate to carry out the test. At point 8, it is
   determined that the patient is still asleep, so the flow rate is returned to the therapeutic
   rate of 20 litres per minute and therapy continues. At point 9, the apparatus is again
   triggered to determine if the patient is awake or asleep, and in this case the flow level is
   reduced to make this determination. At point 10, the respiratory rate and/or tidal volume
25 is measured and compared against the relevant baseline respiratory rate and tidal
   volume. In this case, it is determined that the patient is now awake again. As a result,
   the apparatus is operated to reduce the flow rate down to the sub-therapeutic level of 10
   litres per minute, and the below that. Figure 12a shows an example of some of the
   events that could occur during operation of a breathing apparatus that implements a
30 sleep state detection method as described above and then varies its operation on the
   basis of the detected sleep state.
   Figure 12b shows a second example of an operation of breathing apparatus that utilises
   the detection method. The breathing apparatus initially provides a sub-therapeutic flow
35 rate of 10 litres per minute while the patient is awake. At point 1 the apparatus is
   triggered to detect whether the patient is awake or asleep, and at point 2 it is
   determined that the patient is now asleep using the methods described above. The
   breathing apparatus then ramps the flow rate up to a therapeutic level of 20 litres per

                                                - 25
   minute, where it continues to provide this level of flow rate until the next detection
   method trigger point 3. As an alternative, shown in dotted lines, the breathing apparatus
   might provide a varied flow rate during this period (between point 2 and point 3) as
   appropriate. This demonstrates that the breathing apparatus after detecting the sleep
 5 state might carry out alternative flow rate variations. At point 3, the breathing apparatus
   is then triggered to detect the sleep state again and lowers the flow rate as part of that
   detection method. At point 4, the breathing apparatus determines that the patient
   remains asleep. It then alters the flow rate in a suitable manner. Four possible
   alternatives are shown by way of example in dotted lines. In one alternative, the flow
10 rate is increased again to a therapeutic level, but in this case higher than the previous
   therapeutic level to 25 litres per minute or above. In another alternative, the flow rate is
   maintained at the flow rate at which the detection method was carried out - 15 litres per
   minute. In another alternative, the flow rate is reduced back down to or just above the
   sub-therapeutic initial level of 10 litres per minute. And in yet another alternative, the
15 flow rate could be reduced down to a sub-therapeutic level below the initial level, such as
   5 litres per minute. This figure shows that any variation of flow rate could take place
   following detection of the particular state.
   Figure 12c shows another example of a breathing apparatus operation that implements
20 the detection method. Again the breathing apparatus operates to provide a flow rate at
   an initial level of 15 litres per minute. At point 1 the flow rate is increased and at point 2
   the detection method is carried out to determine if the patient has gone to sleep. The
   controller determines that the patient has gone to sleep and increases the flow rate up to
   a therapeutic level of 20 litres per minute. It then varies the flow rate during this period
25 - which could be for therapeutic reasons. Also, the varying could provide the opportunity
   to carry out the detection method as the increase or decrease flow rate can be used to
   compare the respiratory rate and tidal volume against a baseline respiratory rate and/or
   tidal volume - for example at point 3, 4 and 5. After point 5 it has been determined that
   the patient has awoken again, at which point the flow rate can be varied in a suitable
30 manner by increasing, maintaining, or lowering the flow rate as shown in dotted lines.
   In   the   embodiments       described  above,    the  detection   method    takes  place   by
   altering/varying    (increasing or decreasing)     the flow rate and then comparing the
   respiratory rate and/or tidal volume at that varied flow rate to a relevant baseline
35 respiratory rate and/or tidal volume until a conclusive determination is made. In some
   embodiments, the sleep state detection method could be carried out at any flow rate,
   even if it is kept constant. In such a case, the respiratory rate and/or tidal volume at that
   constant rate could be compared against the respiratory rate and/or tidal volume for the

                                               - 26
   appropriate sleep state baseline respiratory rate and/or tidal volume at a different flow
   rate. Also, in some embodiments the current respiratory rate and/or tidal volume as
   measured could be compared with that for any previous time with a different flow rate
   provided by the apparatus. For example, as shown in Figure 12c, at point 4, a sleep state
 5 detection method could be carried out whereby the respiratory rate and tidal volume at
   point 4 (e.g. at 25 litres per minute) is compared to that at for example point 2 (e.g. at
   15 litres per minute).   The respiratory rate and tidal volume at point 2 could be used in
   lieu of a baseline respiratory rate and tidal volume obtained during a calibration process.
   The sleep state at point 2 is the same as the sleep state at point 4, the respiratory rate
10 and/or tidal volume could be compared to that at point 2 to determine whether the
   patient is awake or asleep.
   Many other embodiments of the invention are possible. Any arrangement of a breathing
   apparatus that determines sleep state by comparing the respiratory rate and/or tidal
15 volume against a reference (baseline) respiratory rate and/or tidal volume at a reference
   (baseline) flow rate could be envisaged. The reference flow rate could be a baseline flow
   rate in which the respiratory rate and/or tidal volumes are measured during a calibration
   period or similar, or the reference flow rate could be at some previous flow rate provided
   by the breathing apparatus at some previous point during use of the breathing
20 apparatus.
   As previously described, the sleep state detection method is carried out based on a
   suitable trigger. One trigger could occur based on a preliminary sleep state detection
   method. For example, a change in respiratory rate and/or tidal volume could be
25 determined    on from that and a possible sleep state inferred.          On determining a
   preliminary indication of sleep state change, the sleep state detection method is then
   triggered and could then be used to confirm the preliminary detection conclusion
   regarding sleep state.
30 The embodiments described refer to the use of respiratory rate and/or tidal volume for
   determining a sleep state. But any suitable breath flow parameter could be used, such a
   parameters derived from respiratory rate and/or tidal volume.     Any embodiments above
   could utilise such derived parameters, with the determination of a sleep state being made
   based on the change of the derived parameters in a manner that could be envisage by
35 those skilled in the art.   Derived parameters could be for example: Minute ventilation
   (which is respiratory rate x tidal volume),       expiratory time, ratio of inspiratory to
   expiratory time, ratio of inspiratory time to total time, ration of expiratory time to total
   time.

                                                - 27
   The embodiments above mention varying flow rate appropriately after detecting a sleep
   state.   But sleep state detection could trigger other apparatus operation changes also to
   improve therapy.
 5
   In any of the embodiments described above, the controller operates the blower/fan to
   provide the required flow rate at any point to conduct the sleep state detection method,
   and after detection the controller operates the blower/fan and any other operations of
   the apparatus to provide the required flow, humidity and/or other therapy in accordance
10 with that required by the sleep state. Operation of a breathing apparatus by a controller
   will be known to those in the art and is not described in detail here.      The controller
   determines sleep state based on signals indicative of respiratory rate, tidal volume
   and/or any other indicative or derived parameters received from sensors that can
   measure appropriate parameters to provide such signals.
15
   It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention can comprise any method or
   apparatus whereby for a particular sleep state and a particular flow rate, the respiratory
   rate and/or tidal volume (or derived parameters) are compared to the same parameters
   for that sleep state at a different flow rate, and the change in those parameters can be
20 used to determine the sleep state. Such a method or apparatus can vary the flow rate,
   and compare the respiratory rate and/or tidal volume or other derived parameters to
   those same parameters prior to varying the flow rate and from the comparison determine
   the sleep state.
25

                                               - 28
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A method of determining a sleep state of a patient comprising the steps of:
           measuring a current breath flow parameter of a patient receiving fluid at a flow
   rate different to a baseline flow rate, the breath flow parameter comprising respiratory
 5 rate and/or tidal volume, or one or more parameters derived therefrom,
           comparing the current breath flow parameter to an equivalent baseline breath
   flow parameter of the patient measured previously at the different, baseline, flow rate,
            and
           determining a sleep state of a patient based on the comparison between the
10 current breath flow parameter at the flow rate and the equivalent baseline breath flow
   parameter measured previously at the different, baseline, flow rate.
   2.     The method      according to claim 1 further comprising the step of, prior to
   measuring a current breath flow parameter of a patient, increasing, decreasing or
15 maintaining the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient such that the flow rate is
   higher than the baseline flow rate.
   3.     The method      according to claim 1 further comprising the step of, prior to
   measuring a current breath flow parameter of a patient, increasing, decreasing or
20 maintaining the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient such that the flow rate is
   lower than the baseline flow rate.
   4.     The method according to any preceding claim wherein the baseline breath flow
   parameter is measured during a calibration process or during actual use of a breathing
25 apparatus that provides the fluid flow to the patient.
   5.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein if the sleep state of a
   patient cannot be determined then current breath flow parameter becomes a baseline
   breath flow parameter,
30         after the current breath flow parameter becomes the baseline breath flow
   parameter,
           measuring   a current   breath flow parameter    of a patient, the breath flow
   parameter comprising respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, or one or more parameters
   derived therefrom,
35         comparing the current breath       flow parameter to the baseline breath       flow
   parameter of the patient measured previously at a different baseline flow rate,
           altering operation of a breathing apparatus that provides the fluid flow based on
   the comparison.

                                               - 29
   6.      The method according to any preceding claim wherein:
           the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, decreased or
   maintained but is above the baseline flow rate,
 5         the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current tidal
   volume,
           the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline
   tidal volume, and
           an awake sleep state is determined if:
10         the current respiratory rate is lower than the baseline respiratory rate, and/or
           the current tidal volume is higher than the baseline tidal volume.
   7.      The method according to any preceding claim wherein:
           the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, or decreased or
15 maintained but is above the baseline flow rate,
           the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current tidal
   volume,
           the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline
   tidal volume, and
20         an asleep sleep state is determined if:
           the current respiratory rate is the same as or slightly lower than the baseline
           respiratory rate, and/or
           the current tidal volume is lower than the baseline tidal volume.
25 8.      The method according to any preceding claim wherein:
           the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, decreased or
   maintained but is below the baseline flow rate,
           the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current tidal
   volume,
30         the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline
   tidal volume, and
           an awake sleep state is determined if:
           the current respiratory rate is higher than the baseline respiratory rate, and/or
           the current tidal volume is lower than the baseline tidal volume.
35
   9.      The method according to any preceding claim wherein:
           the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, decreased or
   maintained but is below the baseline flow rate,

                                                - 30
           the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current tidal
   volume,
           the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline
   tidal volume, and
 5         an asleep sleep state is determined if:
           the current respiratory rate is the same as or slightly higher than the baseline
   respiratory rate, and/or
           the current tidal volume is higher than the baseline tidal volume.
10 10.     The method according to any one of the preceding claims comprising:
           increasing the flow rate provided to the patient if an asleep sleep state is
   determined, or
           decreasing the flow rate provided to the patient if an awake sleep state is
   determined.
15
   11.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3 further comprising a breathing
   apparatus providing nasal high flow to the patient.
   12.     The method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the flow rate at
20 which the fluid is provided to a patient is provided at a fixed or varying flow rate during a
   breath cycle.
   13.     The method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the fluid is
   provided to a patient through a patient interface with at least one nasal prong to provide
25 air into the dead space.
   14.     A breathing apparatus to provide fluid flow to a patient comprising:
           a blower
           at least one sensor, and
30         a controller configured to:
           operate the blower to generate fluid flow at a flow rate different to a baseline flow
   rate to provide to a patient,
           measure using the sensor a current breath flow parameter of a patient at the flow
   rate using the breathing apparatus, the breath flow parameter comprising respiratory
35 rate and/or tidal volume, or one or more parameters derived therefrom,
           compare the current breath flow parameter to an equivalent baseline breath flow
   parameter of the patient measured previously at the different, baseline, flow rate,

                                                - 31
           determine a sleep state of a patient based on the comparison between the current
   breath flow parameter and the equivalent baseline breath flow parameter measured
   previously at the different, baseline, flow rate, and
           alter operation of the breathing apparatus based on the determination of the sleep
 5 state.
   15.     The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the controller is further configured
   to, prior to measuring a current breath flow parameter of a patient, increase, maintain or
   decrease the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient such that the flow rate is
10 higher than the baseline flow rate.
   16.      The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the controller is further configured
   to, prior to measuring a current breath flow parameter of a patient, increase, maintain or
   decrease the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient such that the flow rate is lower
15 than the baseline flow rate.
   17.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 16 wherein if the sleep state
   of a patient cannot be determined, then the controller is configured to:
           set the current breath flow parameter as the baseline breath flow parameter,
20         after the current breath flow parameter becomes the baseline breath flow
   parameter, measure a current breath flow parameter of a patient, the breath flow
   parameter comprising respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, or one or more parameters
   derived therefrom,
           compare the current breath flow parameter to the baseline breath flow parameter
25 of the patient measured previously at a different baseline flow rate, and
           alter operation of the breathing apparatus based on the comparison.
   18.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 17 wherein:
           the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current tidal
30 volume,
           the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline
   tidal volume, and
           the controller is configured to:
                   operate the blower so that the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient
35 is increased, decreased or maintained but is above the baseline flow rate, and
           determine an awake sleep state if:
           the current respiratory rate is lower than the baseline respiratory rate, and/or
           the current tidal volume is higher than the baseline tidal volume.

                                                - 32
   19.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 18 claim wherein:
           the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current tidal
   volume,
 5         the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline
   tidal volume, and
           the controller is configured to:
           operate the blower so that the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is
   increased, or decreased or maintained but is above the baseline flow rate, and determine
10 an asleep sleep state if:
           the current respiratory rate is the same as or slightly lower than the baseline
   respiratory rate, and/or
           the current tidal volume is lower than the baseline tidal volume.
15 20.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 19 wherein:
           the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current tidal
   volume,
           the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline
   tidal volume, and
20         the controller is configured to:
           operate the blower so that the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is
   increased, decreased or maintained but is below the baseline flow rate,
           determine an awake sleep state if:
           the current respiratory rate is higher than the baseline respiratory rate, and/or
25         the current tidal volume is lower than the baseline tidal volume.
   21.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 20 wherein:
           the flow rate of the fluid provided to the patient is increased, decreased or
   maintained but is below the baseline flow rate,
30         the current breath flow parameter is a current respiratory rate and/or current tidal
   volume,
           the baseline breath flow parameter is a baseline respiratory rate and/or baseline
   tidal volume, and
           the controller is configured to:
35         determine an asleep sleep state if:
           the current respiratory rate is the same as or slightly higher than the baseline
           respiratory rate, and/or
           the current tidal volume is higher than the baseline tidal volume.

                                               - 33
   22.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 21 comprising the controller
   being configured to operate the blower to:
           increase the flow rate provided to the patient if an asleep sleep state is
 5 determined, or
           decrease the flow rate provided to the patient if an awake sleep state is
   determined.
   23.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 22 wherein the breathing
10 apparatus provides nasal high flow to a patient.
   24.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 23 wherein the flow rate at
   which the fluid is provided to a patient is provided at a fixed or varying flow rate during a
   breath cycle.
15
   25.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 24 wherein the fluid is
   provided to a patient through a patient interface with at least one nasal prong to provide
   air into the dead space.

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013263503, is current as of 2017-11-22 21:00 AEST

