          EXCIPIENT SYSTEM FOR TOPICAL DELIVERY OF
                           PHARMACEUTICAL AGENTS
                                              Abstract
 5
           The subject invention is based upon the discovery that a wide variety of
   pharmaceutical agents can be delivered into the skin, fingernails, and toenails of patients by
   dissolving or dispersing the pharmaceutical agent in a solvent system which is comprised of
10 a combination of an alkyl lactate and Simmondsia chinesis seed oil. It is critical for the
   solvent system to contain both the alkyl lactate and Simmondsia chinesis seed oil to attain
   penetration through skin, fingernails and toenails. In other words, for effective delivery of
   the pharmaceutical agent through the skin or nail it is critical for the pharmaceutical agent to
   be dissolved or dispersed in a mixture of an alkyl lactate and Simmondsia chinesis seed oil.
15 The subject invention more specifically discloses a pharmaceutical serum which is
   comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein the alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2
   to about 12 carbon atoms, (2) Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) a pharmaceutical agent.
   Some representative examples of pharmaceutical agent which can be incorporated into the
   pharmaceutical serums of this invention include, antifungal agents, hormones, growth
20 factors (cytokines), antimicrobials, antibacterials, antibiotics, non-steroidal anti
   inflammatory agents, immunodilators, anesthetics, plant extracts, vitamins, corticosteroids,
   hair growth stimulants, and the like.

                                                1
EXCIPIENT SYSTEM FOR TOPICAL DELIVERY OF PHARMACEUTICAL AGENTS
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
        This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.201322798 1,
claiming convention priority to US 61/698875 filed on 10 September 2012 and US
61/698898 filed on 10 September 2012, the contents of all of which are incorporated herein
by reference.
Background of the Invention
        The effectiveness of virtually all pharmaceutical compositions which are applied to
the skin of a patient is normally contingent upon delivery of the active ingredients of such
composition through the stratum corneum and viable epidermis into the dermis layer of the
skin structure. This is because the active ingredients in such compositions cannot be
effective unless they penetrate through the dead layers of skin tissue and into the dermis
layer of living skin cells. This is normally a difficult proposition for water soluble active
ingredients, such as ascorbic acid, because the stratum corneum is a good water barrier.
The stratum corneum and viable epidermis act to protect the body by holding water therein
to prevent dehydration and by keeping external water which is frequently contaminated
with harmful microorganisms and toxic chemicals out of the body. By the same token, the
skin is also a good barrier with respect to most organic solvents. Accordingly, only a few
solvents are capable of topically delivering pharmaceutical agents deeply into the skin.
        Known solvents which are capable of penetrating through the stratum corneum and
viable epidermis into the dermis layer of the skin structure cannot be beneficially used in
many cases. This is because many pharmaceutical agents are not soluble in such solvents
making effective topical delivery using them impossible. In other cases, the solvent may by
chemically or biologically incompatible with pharmaceutical agent by virtue of reacting
with it or otherwise destroying its bioavailability. In still other cases, human or animal
exposure to the solvent may to detrimental due to toxicity and/or undesirable side effects.
For instance, the long term exposure of humans or animals to solvents, such as
dimethylsulfoxide, would not be desirable and its use on a repeated basis would not
normally be warranted.
        In many cases, by the topical administration of beneficial pharmaceutical agents to
treat maladies in human patients and animals or to attain other desired beneficial results is
simply not possible because a solvent system for the effective delivery of the

                                                la
pharmaceutical agent is simply not known. In other cases, pharmaceutical agents can be
delivered topically to attain beneficial results. However, the results attained could be
dramatically improved if

                                                   -2
   better topical delivery systems were available. For instance, hair growth stimulants, such as
   minoxidil, can be topically delivered with some degree of success. However, the level of
   beneficial hair growth attained could be significantly improved if a delivery system to
   transport the hair growth stimulant deeper into the skin structure at a higher concentration
 5 was available.
           There has been a long felt need for an excipient system which is capable of
   delivering a wide range of pharmaceutical compositions through the stratum comeum and
   viable epidermis into the dermis layer of the skin structure at high levels of concentration.
   Such an excipieint system should be chemically and biologically inert with respect to the
10 pharmaceutical agent. It should also be nontoxic and should not induce any undesirable side
   effects in the human patient or animal being treated. It is also of utmost importance for the
   excipient system to be a good solvent for the pharmaceutical agent or for the pharmaceutical
   agent to be highly dispersible in it.
           These has been a long felt need for an excipient system for the delivery of anti
15 fungal agents. A fungus is a member of a large group of organisms that includes
   microorganisms such as yeasts and molds, as well as the more familiar mushroom. These
   organisms are classified as a Kingdom, Fungi, which is separate from plants, animals and
   bacteria. Before the introduction of molecular methods for phylogenetic analysis,
   taxonomists considered fungi to be members of the Plant Kingdom primarily because of the
20 similarities in lifestyle, as both fungi and plants are largely immobile, and have similarities
   in general morphology and growth habitat. Post molecular methods for phylogenetic
   analysis, the fungi have been a separate Kingdom distinct from both plants and animals,
   from which they appear to have diverged around one billion years ago. Advances in
   molecular genetics have opened the door for DNA analysis to be incorporated into
25 taxonomy, which has oftentimes challenged the historical groupings of fungi based on
   morphology and other traits. Phylogenetic studies published in the last decade have helped
   reshape the classification of the Kingdom Fungi, which is divided into one subkingdom,
   seven phyla, and ten subphyla.
           The fungus kingdom encompasses an enormous diversity of taxa with varied
30 ecologies, life cycle strategies, and morphologies ranging from single-celled aquatic chytrids

                                                  -3
   to large mushrooms. However, little is known of the true diversity of Kingdom Fungi,
   which has been estimated at around 1.5 million species, with about 5% of these having been
   formally classified.
            The English word fungus is directly adopted from the Latin Fungus (mushroom),
 5 used in the writings of Florace and Pliny. This in turn is derived from the Greek word
   Sphongos (Sponge), which refers to the macroscopic structures and morphology of
   mushrooms and molds. The discipline of biology devoted to the study of fungi is known as
   mycology, which is regarded as a branch of botany, even though studies have shown that
   fungi are more closely related to animals than to plants.
10          The Kingdom Fungi includes some of the most important organisms, both in terms
   of their economic and ecological roles. For instance fungi by breaking down the dead
   organic material in the environment continue the cycle of nutrients through ecosystems.
   Furthermore, most vascular plants could not grow without the symbiotic fungi that inhabit
   their roots and supply essential nutrients. Fungi has been essential in providing many
15 breakthrough drug, such as penicillin and more sophisticated antibiotics. Other fungi have
   given us wonderful foods such as mushrooms, morels and the much desired truffle. From
   fungi we also obtain our breads, beers, and champagnes. However, with the Kingdom
   Fungi also comes the negative. Fungi are also responsible for a number of diseases of both
   plant (leaf, root and stem rot, rusts and smuts) and varied disease in animals and humans.
20 Precisely because fungi are more genetically and chemically similar to animals than any
   other organisms, this makes fungal diseases very difficult to treat.
            Onychomycosis is a fungal infection of human fingernails or toenails.
   Onychomycosis is a progressive, recurring fungal infection that initially first occurs in the
   nail bed and progresses to the nail plate. The main structural components of the nail include
25 the lateral and proximal folds, cuticle, matrix, plate and hyponychium. The proximal nail
   fold is located at the proximal end of the visible nail plate where it folds over itself. The
   horny layer of the proximal nail fold is called the cuticle. The cuticle consists of modified
   stratum corneum that originates at the junction of the dorsal and ventral epithelial surfaces
   and proceeds along the nail surface. The cuticle protects the matrix from exposure to
30 foreign material, including infection from microorganisms. The matrix is the growth center

                                                   -4
   of the nail and is located at the proximal end under the cuticle. This site contains basal cells
   that migrate into the nail plate, where they divide and differentiate, forming the hard,
   keratinized component of the nail plate. The nail plate is the largest structure of the nail unit
   and is attached to the top of the nail bed. This transparent structure is gradually replaced as
 5 it grows out. The structure is completely renewed every 6 months on fingers and every 10
   to 18 months on toes. The nail grows faster on longer digits, digits that are used most often
   and on traumatized nails. The nail bed is located under the nail plate and consists of
   epidermal grooves and ridges that contain small blood vessels. The dermis of the nail
   borders bone(the phalanx) rather than subcutaneous tissue.
10           Fungal infections usually invade the nail (between the nail plate and the nail bed)
   through an opening in the subungual space of the hyponychium, near the distal groove. The
   infection starts distally, then progresses proximally. However, trauma to the cuticle may
   also permit entry of fungal organisms.
             The types of microorganisms that cause onychomycosis can be broadly classified
15 into 2 groups: dermatophytes and nondermatophytes. Dermatophytes are fungi that infect
   keratinous tissue. Nondermatophytes that cause onochomycosis are either yeasts or molds.
   Dermatophytes are by far the most common causative pathogens of onychomycosis.
             The nail provides the perfect place for the fungus and protects it while it grows, since
   fungi love damp, warm, dark places, the nails of our fingers and toes are very effective
20 barriers. This barrier makes it quite difficult for a superficial infection to invade the nail.
   However, once an infection has invaded that same barrier that was so effective in protecting
   us against infection now works against us, making this type of fungal infection very difficult
   to treat.
             Onychomycosis is not an uncommon disease. This type of infection accounts for
25 approximately half of all nail disorders and one third of cutaneous fungal infections in the
   United States. Studies suggest that the number of persons affected is apparently on the rise.
   This rise may be attributed to many factors among them the aging population. Some studies
   suggest that 48% of the population may be infected by age 70. The increasingly higher
   occurrence of onychomyosis may also be attributable to the greater use of
30 immunosuppressive drugs, the increasing number of people infected with HIV, the

                                                   -5
   increasing exposure to pathogens in public swimming pools and spas, and high heels and
   tight fitting shoes in fashion styles. The growth of low cost nail salons that may not always
   properly disinfect nail instruments thoroughly between clients is also attributing to the
   increasing occurrence of onychomycosis in many countries.
 5          The problem with onychomycosis is aggravated by the fact that it is very contagious
   and easily passed from person to person. In fact, many infected people are under the
   impression that the infection will resolve spontaneously and go without any treatment while
   infecting other people. On the other hand, onychomycosis is notoriously difficult to treat
   and long treatment periods have typically been required to cure the infection using
10 conventional drugs and techniques. It is not uncommon for patients to simply give up
   before that infection has been eradicated.
            The dermatophyte fungus that causes the onychomycosis infection is ubiquitous. It
   rarely remits spontaneously and typically spreads to involve the entire nail anatomy.
   Unfortunately, onychomycosis frequently spreads to other digits, and sometimes spreads to
15 other sites and to other family members as well as others that come in contact with the
   infected person or infected articles which are contaminated by the infected person.
            Participants in numerous athletic activities of varied nature are much more
   susceptible to onychomycosis. Some of these athletic activities include: long distance
   running, ballet dancing, golf, and soccer. A wide array of preexisting medical conditions
20 also leads to a higher level of susceptibility to being infected with onychomycosis. Some of
   these medical conditions include: diabetes mellitus, blood circulation disorders (including
   varicose veins in the legs, pallor of fingers and toes, and poor peripheral circulation), and
   genetic susceptibility associated with Down's Syndrome, Raynaud Syndrome, and
   Cushing's Syndrome. Cancer patients that are being treated with chemotherapy and organ
25 transplant recipients on anti-rejection drugs are also in a high risk group.
            Nail trauma is a frequent cause of onychomycosis. Individuals in trades and
   professions that involve the wearing of sports or safety shoes are also at higher risk. Men
   are more prone to onychomycosis than women. The reasons for this gender difference are
   not clear but may involve higher occurrence of nail trauma that results from professional and
30 athletic activities. Social and/or genetic factors may also play a role.

                                                    -6
           Nail fungus is more than just a cosmetic problem. Many people complain of
   discomfort in walking, pain, or limitation of their work or other activities. Gross distortion
   and dystrophy of the nail may cause trauma to adjacent skin and may lead to secondary
   bacterial infection. In several studies, patients with onochomycosis reported significantly
 5 poorer general health, mental health, social functioning, and body pain than did people
   without this nail infection. Psychosocial limitations included fear of social situations that
   exposed on infected fingernail or toenail.
           In immuno-compromised people, there is a great risk that this infection will
   disseminate. Although onychomycosis causes some degree of morbidity for healthy
10 individuals it is especially pronounced in high risk patients such as diabetics, patients with
   HIV, AIDS or other types of immunosuppressant, including transplant recipients, and
   patients on long term corticosteroid therapy.
           Onychomycosis poses a greater risk to diabetic patients because of the possible
   sequelae. In particular, high risk diabetic patients with compromised lower extremities and
15 severe neuropathy are at increased risk of developing complications from onychomycosis.
   Most notably impaired sensation can make many diabetics less aware of minor abrasions
   and ulcerations on their feet that may be caused by trauma, from poor nail grooming or by
   the sharp brittle or infected nails characteristic of onychomyosis. These lesions in turn may
   develop into serious paronychia, cellulites or bacterial infections, and contribute to the
20 severity of the diabetic foot. Osteomyelitis can also result from neglected, infected nail bed
   erosion in diabetic patients because of the close proximity of the nail bed to the underlying
   bone. Nearly 18% of gangrene and 10% of foot ulcers in people can be attributed to
   onychomycosis. Thus, diabetics with onychomycosis should treat it quickly as it may lead
   to much greater, catastrophic results.
25         Everyone should seek treatment of a nail fungus as soon as one is suspected.
   Symptoms of nail fungus can include nail changes such as, brittleness, change in nail shape,
   crumbling of the outside edges of the nail, debris trapped under the nail, loosening or lifting
   up of the nail, loss of luster or shine, white spots, thickening of the nail or white or yellow
   streaks on the side of the nail. Much more rarely, a black strip or spot is present.
30         Current treatment for ocychomycosis include mechanical debridement, oral drugs,

                                                  -7
   topical drugs, removal of nail and laser treatments. Mechanical debridement is a traditional
   podiatric approach that requires time, specialized instruments, and experience. The goal of
   this approach is to reduce pressure and fungal load by mechanically reducing nail thickness.
   Since mechanical debridement removes a large portion of fungal material it has potential to
 5 enhance the effectiveness of other therapies. However, it does have its limitations. It does
   not eradicate the infectious pathogens, and it must be repeated as the nail grows until the
   infection is gone.
           Oral antifungal medications are often prescribed as first -line treatments for nail
   fungus. These systemic drugs reach the infected nail via the peripheral circulation. Though
10 antifungal medications have improved it has been suggested that as many as 25% to 40% of
   onychomycosis cases are classified as treatment failures in clinical practice. In addition
   these oral drugs have many adverse side affects including headache, gastrointestinal
   symptoms such as diarrhea, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, constipation, nausea and flatulence;
   dermatological symptoms such as rash, pruritus and urticaria. Additionally these oral
15 antifungal drugs may effect the liver, therefore liver function and white cell counts should be
   assessed at baseline and periodically during treatment. Neutropenia and transient taste
   disturbance may also result. Another downside to oral antifungal medication is the financial
   impact for the patient as these oral antifungal drugs can be quite expensive.
           Current topical antifungal therapy is effective for the treatment of onochomycossis in
20 some cases. This approach involves the direct application of an antifungal drug to the
   infected nail. These drugs are thought to diffuse through the nail plate to reach the site of
   infection, where they eradicate fungal organisms. These over the counter creams and
   ointments generally do not help treat this condition.
           Removal of the nail involves the removal of the affected nail plate, this may be
25 performed surgically or chemically. This approach allows growth of a new nail but can
   traumatize the nail bed, which may affect the appearance of the new nail. Total nail removal
   causes great discomfort to the patient and therefore is discouraged. Only in the most severe
   cases should this method be recommended.
           Practitioners have been using lasers for toenail fungus since 2009. However,
30 podiatrists using this method disagree greatly on its effectiveness both medically and from

                                                  -8
   the standpoint of cost. The treatment consists of the practitioner aiming a laser beam at the
   patient's toenail to kill the organisms that cause the fungus. The nails are not immediately
   clear after the treatment, which takes up to an hour and the patient must wait for the fungus
   free nail to grow out which cat take up to about 18 months. Multiple laser treatments are
 5 frequently required and the total cost of such treatments can preclude them from being a
   possibility for many patients. In addition to this the high cost of laser treatments is generally
   not covered by insurance because it is considered to be an aesthetic procedure.
           Considering the problems associated with the current methods of treatment for nail
   fungus something more ideal needs to be found. Georgeanne Botek, DPM Department of
10 Orthopedic Surgery at The Cleveland Clinic, suggests that the ideal anti fungal treatment
   would be broad spectrum, taken up and incorporated into the nail matrix, diffusing through
   the epithelium of the nail bed to reach the nail bed hyperkeratosis, and penetrating into the
   ventral surface of the plate. Additionally, it would be effective, with high rates of clinical
   cure (ascertained by laboratory testing, fungal culture) and a low rate of relapse and
15 effective when used short term (the duration of new nail re-growth) and have few in any
   adverse effects and adverse drug interactions. It should also, of course, be cost effective.
   Summary of the Invention
           The subject invention is based upon the discovery that a wide variety of
20 pharmaceutical agents can be delivered into the skin, fingernails, and toenails of patients by
   dissolving or dispersing the pharmaceutical agent in a solvent system which is comprised of
   a combination of an alkyl lactate and Simmondsia chinesis seed oil. It is critical for the
   solvent system to contain both the alkyl lactate and Simmondsia chinesis seed oil to attain
   penetration through skin, fingernails and toenails. In other words, for effective delivery of
25 the pharmaceutical agent through the skin or nail it is critical for the pharmaceutical agent to
   be dissolved or dispersed in a mixture of an alkyl lactate and Simmondsia chinesis seed oil.
   The subject invention more specifically discloses a pharmaceutical serum which is
   comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein the alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2
   to about 12 carbon atoms, (2) Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) a pharmaceutical agent.
30 Some representative examples of pharmaceutical agent which can be incorporated into the

                                                  -9
   pharmaceutical serums of this invention include, antifungal agents, hormones, growth
   factors (cytokines), antimicrobials, antibacterials, antibiotics, non-steroidal anti
   inflammatory agents, immunodilators, anesthetics, plant extracts, vitamins, corticosteroids,
   hair growth stimulants, and the like.
 5         The subject invention more specifically discloses a pharmaceutical serum which is
   comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein the alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2
   to about 12 carbon atoms, (2) Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) a pharmaceutical agent.
           The subject invention further discloses a pharmaceutical serum which is comprised
   of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein the alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2 to about
10 12 carbon atoms, (2) Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) a pharmaceutical agent, wherein
   the pharmaceutical agent is selected from the group consisting of antifungal agents,
   hormones, growth factors, antimicrobials, antibacterials, antibiotics, non-steroidal anti
   inflammatory agents, immunodilators, anesthetics, plant extracts, vitamins, corticosteroids,
   hair growth stimulants, and the like.
15         In one embodiment of this invention a hair growth stimulant is included in the
   pharmaceutical serum of this invention as the pharmaceutical agent. In most cases the hair
   growth stimulant will be a antihypertensive vasodilator medication, such as minoxidil (6-(1
   piperidinyl)-2,4-pyrimidinedia mine 3-oxide) which is included in the serum at a level which
   is within the range of about 0.5 weight percent to about 12 weight percent. The hair growth
20 stimulant will more typically be included in the serum at a level which is within the range of
   about 1 weight percent to about 8 weight percent. The hair growth stimulant will most
   typically be included in the serum at a level which is within the range of about 2 weight
   percent to about 5 weight percent.
           The present invention also reveals a method for treating human hair loss which
25 comprised topically applying a hair growth serum to an area of skin where hair growth is
   desired, wherein the hair growth serum is comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein the
   alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms, (2) Simmondsia
   chinesis seed oil, and (3) from about 0.5 weight percent to about 12 weight percent of a hair
   growth stimulant.
30         In another embodiment of this invention an antioxidant is included in the

                                                  - 10
   pharmaceutical serum of this invention as the pharmaceutical agent. In most cases the
   antioxidant, such as carnosic acid, will be included in the pharmaceutical serum at a level
   which is within the range of about 0.01 weight percent to about 15 weight percent. The
   antioxidant will more typically be included in the serum at a level which is within the range
 5 of about 0.1 weight percent to about 12 weight percent. The antioxidant will most typically
   be included in the serum at a level which is within the range of about 0.5 weight percent
   weight percent to about 10 weight percent.
            In another embodiment of this invention (2E,4E,6E,8E)-3,7-dimethyl-9-(2,6,6
   trimethylcyclohex- 1-enyl)nona-2,4,6,8-tetraen- 1-ol, commonly known as retinol, or retinoic
10 acid, commonly known as Retin-A, is included in the pharmaceutical serum of this invention
   as the pharmaceutical agent. Retinol and Retin-A are known to increase the production of
   cells in the top layer of skin, helping to rejuvenate the skin. As a result, the skin gradually
   looks younger in appearance. Retinol and Retin-A also induce higher levels of collagen
   production which makes to skin firmer and accordingly gives it a younger appearance.
15 These agents may also reduce pigmentation issues that stem from sun damage. In any case
   retinol and Retin-A are known to help improve the overall appearance of the skin and to
   reduce the visible signs of aging. These agents are also highly effective antioxidants that
   can help prevent harmful carcinogens from breaking down skin cells. They also stimulate
   the production of healthy skin cells, which is essential in healing skin damage caused by
20 aging and environmental exposure. Retinol and Retin-A also stimulates collagen
   production, which can help fill in the fine lines and wrinkles caused by age, shrink pores,
   and soften the skin.
            By virtue of their ability to unclog pores and remove dead skin cells retinol and
   Retin-A are often used in treating patients suffering with acne. The healing properties of
25 retinol can also help to reverse sun damage and relieve sunburn. Retinol and Retin-A are
   both derivatives of vitamin A and are sometimes used interchangeably due to confusion.
   However, Retin-A is much stronger and has a much more aggressive effect on the skin. As
   a consequence of Retin-A being significantly harsher and causing a higher incidence of side
   effects, such as skin redness, itchiness and rashes, retinol is much better for sensitive skin.
30          In most cases the retinol will be included in the pharmaceutical serum at a level

                                                  - 11
   which is within the range of about 0.1 weight percent to about 15 weight percent. On the
   other hand, retinoic acid will typically be included in such pharmaceutical serums at levels
   which are in the range of about 0.005 weight percent to about 0.5 weight percent. In any
   case, this invention further discloses a pharmaceutical serum which is comprised of (1) an
 5 alkyl lactate, wherein the alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2 to about 12 carbon
   atoms, (2) Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) a pharmaceutical agent which is selected
   from the group consisting of retinol and retinoic acid.
           The present invention also reveals a method for skin rejuvenation which comprised
   topically applying a skin rejuvenation serum to an area of skin where skin rejuvenation is
10 desired, wherein the skin rejuvenation serum is comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein
   the alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms, (2)
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) an effective amount of a vitamin A derivative selected
   from the group consisting of retinol and retinoic acid.
           The subject invention is based upon the discovery that an antifungal agent can be
15 delivered through the fingernail or the toenail of an infected human to treat onychomycosis
   by dissolving or dispersing the antifungal agent in a solvent system which is comprised of a
   combination of an alkyl lactate and Simmondsia chinesis seed oil. It is critical for the
   solvent system to contain both the alkyl lactate and Simmondsia chinesis seed oil to attain
   penetration through the fingernail or the toenail. In other words, for effective delivery of the
20 antifungal agent through the nail to reach the fungus under the nail it is critical for the
   antifungal agent to be dissolved or dispersed in a mixture of an alkyl lactate and
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil. Accordingly, in accordance with this invention the antifungal
   agent is absorbed by and incorporated into the nail matrix by diffusing through the
   epithelium of the nail bed to reach the nail bed hyperkeratosis. The antifungal agent
25 additionally penetrates into the ventral surface of the nail plate.
           The antifungal serum of this invention has been determined to be highly effective
   (offers a high rate of clinical cure) and offers a low rate of relapse. It is also effective when
   used short term (the duration of new nail re-growth) and is not believed to have any adverse
   effects or to cause adverse drug interactions. Additionally, the antifungal serum of this
30 invention is highly cost effective in treating onychomycosis.

                                                   - 12
            The subject invention more specifically discloses an antifungal serum which is
   comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein the alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2
   to about 12 carbon atoms, (2) Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) an antifungal agent.
            The present invention also reveals a method for treating a human fingernail or toenail
 5 which is infected with onychomycosis which comprised applying an antifungal serum to the
   infected nail, wherein the antifungal serum is comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein the
   alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms, (2) Simmondsia
   chinesis seed oil, and (3) an antifungal agent.
10 Detailed Description of the Invention
            The pharmaceutical serum of this invention is comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, (2)
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) a pharmaceutical agent. The alkyl lactate utilized will
   typically have an alkyl group that contains from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms and will
   accordingly be of the structural formula:
15                                            OH     0
                                     H3 C-CH-C---R
   wherein R represents an straight chained or a branched alkyl group that contains from 2 to
   12 carbon atoms. The alkyl group (R) of the alkyl lactate will typically contain from 2 to
20 about 8 carbon atoms and will more typically contain from 3 to 6 carbon atoms. In many
   cases the alkyl group of the alkyl lactate will contain from 4 to 6 carbon atoms. For
   instance, the alkyl group of the alkyl lactate can contain 4, 5, or 6 carbon atoms. Some
   representative examples of alkyl lactates that can be used include: ethyl lactate, n-propyl
   lactate, iso-propyl lactate, n-butyl lactate, iso-butyl lactate, t-butyl lactate, isoamyl lactate, n
25 pentyl lactate, t-pentyl lactate, n-hexyl lactate, iso-hexyl lactate, t-hexyl lactate, n-heptyl
   lactate, iso-heptyl lactate, t-heptyl lactate, n-octyl lactate, iso-octyl lactate, and t-octyl
   lactate.
            Isoamyl lactate is preferred for utilization as the alkyl lactate because it is not a
   volatile as the lower molecular weight alkyl lactates, but is still a low viscosity liquid at
30 room temperature. Isoamyl lactate is of the structural formula:

                                                   - 13
                                   OH      0                              CH 3
                                    I      I_____
                                             I     ______                 I_____
                           H3 C-CH-C-0-CH                   2 -CH  2 -CH-CH         3
   and is also a colorless liquid having a pleasant mild odor. Isoamyl lactate is preferred for
 5 utilization in conjunction with oil soluble antifungal agents, such as undecylenic acid.
            Mixtures of various alkyl lactates can be utilized in the pharmaceutical serum of this
   invention. For instance, a mixture of ethyl lactate and isoamyl lactate can be employed.
   Ethyl lactate is a colorless liquid of the structural formula:
                                             OH      0
10                                             |     11
                                   H3 C      CH-C-0--CH             2 -CH      3
   which is preferred for utilization in conjunction with antifungal agents which are water
   soluble. However, ethyl lactate has a strong odor. Accordingly, it is preferred to utilize
   ethyl lactate in mixtures with a higher molecular weight alkyl lactate to reduce volatility and
15 the level of odor. It is desirable to utilize ethyl lactate in mixtures with isoamyl lactate in
   some cases. The weight ratio of ethyl lactate to isoamyl lactate will typically be within the
   range of about 1:10 to about 20:1. The weight ratio of ethyl lactate to isoamyl lactate will
   more typically be within the range of about 1:5 to about 10:1. Such mixtures of ethyl lactate
   and isoamyl lactate will preferably contain from about 30 weight percent to 70 weight
20 percent ethyl lactate and from about 30 weight percent to about 70 weight percent isoamyl
   lactate. Such mixtures of ethyl lactate and isoamyl lactate will more preferably contain from
   about 40 weight percent to 60 weight percent ethyl lactate and from about 40 weight percent
   to about 60 weight percent isoamyl lactate. Such mixtures of ethyl lactate and isoamyl
   lactate will most preferably contain from about 45 weight percent to 55 weight percent ethyl
25 lactate and from about 45 weight percent to about 55 weight percent isoamyl lactate.
            The Simmondsia chinesis seed oil used in the antifungal serums of this invention is
   commonly known as jojoba oil or goat-nut oil. The Simmondsia chinesis seed oil can be
   expeller processed or it can be cold pressed at a temperature which does not exceed 150'F
   (66'C) and which preferably does not exceed 120'F (49'C). The Simmondsia chinesis seed
30 oil is preferably golden Simmondsia chinesis seed oil which is filtered, but which is not

                                                  - 14
   refined. Accordingly, the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will normally be filtered to remove
   undesired particulate matter. In some cases refined Simmondsia chinesis seed oil can by
   used in the pharmaceutical serums of this invention with good results. Such refined
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is clear, rather than being golden in color, and offers the
 5 advantage of having an extended shelf-life without becoming rancid. However, in the
   practice of the subject invention color is not of importance and oil stabilization can be
   achieved by adding a small amount of a soluble antioxidant, such as Vitamin E to the
   antifungal serum. In any case, the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil can be refined by extracting
   it from unrefined material with an organic solvent, such as n-hexane or cyclohexane, and
10 then fractionally distilling the extract to remove the organic solvent.
           In cases where Vitamin E (a-tocopherol,     P -tocopherol, y-tocopherol, and/or 6
   tocopherol) is utilized in the pharmaceutical serum it is typically present at a level which is
   within the range of about 0.01 weight percent to about 2 weight percent, based upon the total
   weight of the antifungal serum. In cases where Vitamin E is utilized in the pharmaceutical
15 serum it is more typically added at a level which is within the range of 0.05 weight percent
   to about 1 weight percent, and is generally employed at a level which is within the range of
   0.1 weight percent to 0.5 weight percent, based upon the total weight of the pharmaceutical
   serum.
           A wide variety of pharmaceutical agents can be utilized in the pharmaceutical
20 serums of this invention. For instance, the pharmaceutical agent can be selected from
   antifungal agents, hormones, growth factors, antimicrobials, antibacterials, antibiotics, non
   steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, immunodilators, anesthetics, plant extracts, vitamins,
   vitamin derivatives, corticosteroids, hair growth stimulants, and the like.
           In one embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical agent is an antifungal agent.
25 A wide variety of antifungal agents can be utilized in the antifungal serums of this invention.
   For instance, the antifungal agent can be selected from azoles or imidazoles, including but
   not limited to, miconazole, econazole, terconazole, saperconazole, itraconazole,
   butaconazole, clotrimazole, tioconazole, fluconazole and ketoconazole, vericonazole,
   fenticonazole, sertaconazole, posaconazole, bifonazole, oxiconazole, sulconazole, elubiol,
30 vorconazole, isoconazole, flutrimazole, tioconazole and their pharmaceutically acceptable

                                                  - 15
   salts and the like. The antifungal agent can also be an allylamine or it can be selected from
   other chemical families, including but not limited to, ternafine, naftifine, amorolfine,
   butenafine, ciclopirox, griseofulvin, undecyclenic acid, haloprogin, tolnaftate, nystatin,
   iodine, rilopirox, BAY 108888, purpuromycin and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts.
 5 However, the preferred antifungal agents for utilization in conjunction with this invention
   include clioquinol, haloprogin, miconazole nitrate, poridone-iodine, tolnaftate, undecylenic
   acid, calcium undecylenate, cobalt undecylenate, zinc undecylenate, and clotrimazole.
   Undecylenic acid is a highly preferred antifungal agent for utilization in the practice of this
   invention.
10          The alkyl lactate will typically be present in the antifungal serums of this invention
   at a level which is within the range of about 5 weight percent to about 80 weight percent and
   will more typically be present at a level which is within the range of about 10 weight percent
   to about 70 weight percent. The alkyl lactate will commonly be present in the antifungal
   serums of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 10 weight percent to
15 about 60 weight percent and will more commonly be present at a level which is within the
   range of about 15 weight percent to about 60 weight percent. In most cases, the alkyl lactate
   will typically be present in the antifungal serums of this invention at a level which is within
   the range of about 15 weight percent to about 50 weight percent.
            The Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will typically be present in the antifungal serums
20 of this invention at a level which is within the range of f about 5 weight percent to about 80
   percent and more typically be present at a level which is within the range of about 10 weight
   percent to about 70 percent. The Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will commonly be present in
   the antifungal serums of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 10
   weight percent to about 60 percent and more typically will be present at a level which is
25 within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 50 percent. In most cases, the
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will be present in the antifungal serums of this invention at a
   level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 45 percent and in many
   cases will preferably be present at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight
   percent to about 40 percent.
30          The antifungal agent will typically be present at a level of about 0.25 weight percent

                                                 - 16
   to about 40 weight percent and will more typically be present at a level which is within the
   range of about 0.5 weight percent to about 35 weight percent. The antifungal agent will
   commonly be present at a level of about 0.75 weight percent to about 30 weight percent and
   will more commonly be present at a level which is within the range of about 1 weight
 5 percent to about 30 weight percent. However, the level of antifungal agent utilized is highly
   dependant upon the identity of the antifungal agent employed in the antifungal serum. For
   instance, undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate, cobalt undecylenate, zinc undecylenate
   will typically be utilized alone or in a mixture at a level which is within the range of about 5
   weight percent to about 30 weight percent. Undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate, cobalt
10 undecylenate, zinc undecylenate will more typically be utilized alone or in a mixture at a
   level which is within the range of about 10 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
   Undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate, cobalt undecylenate, zinc undecylenate will most
   typically be utilized alone or in a mixture at a level which is within the range of about 15
   weight percent to about 25 weight percent. Undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate, cobalt
15 undecylenate, zinc undecylenate will preferably be utilized alone or in a mixture at a level
   which is within the range of about 20 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
           In cases where haloprogin, tolnaftate, or clotrimazole are utilized as the antifungal
   agent in the antifungal serums of this invention they will typically be incorporated at a level
   which is within the range of about 0.25 weight percent to about 2 weight percent.
20 Haloprogin, tolnaftate, or clotrimazole will more typically be incorporated into the
   antifungal serums of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 0.5 weight
   percent to about 1.5 weight percent and will preferably be included at a level of which is
   within the range of about 0.75 weight percent to about 1.25 weight percent. It is normally
   most preferred for haloprogin, tolnaftate, or clotrimazole to be included in the antifungal
25 serums of this invention at a level of 1 weight percent.
           In cases where poridone-iodine is utilized as the antifungal agent in the antifungal
   serums of this invention it will typically be incorporated at a level which is within the range
   of about 4 weight percent to about 20 weight percent. Poridone-iodine will more typically
   be incorporated into the antifungal serums of this invention at a level which is within the
30 range of about 6 weight percent to about 14 weight percent and will preferably be included

                                                  - 17
   at a level of which is within the range of about 8 weight percent to about 12 weight percent.
   It is normally most preferred for poridone-iodine to be included in the antifungal serums of
   this invention at a level of 10 weight percent.
            In cases where miconazole nitrate is utilized as the antifungal agent in the antifungal
 5 serums of this invention it will typically be incorporated at a level which is within the range
   of about 05 weight percent to about 8 weight percent. Miconazole nitrate will more
   typically be incorporated into the antifungal serums of this invention at a level which is
   within the range of about 1 weight percent to about 4 weight percent and will preferably be
   included at a level of which is within the range of about 1.5 weight percent to about 3 weight
10 percent. It is normally most preferred for miconazole nitrate to be included in the antifungal
   serums of this invention at a level of 2 weight percent.
            In cases where clioquinol is utilized as the antifungal agent in the antifungal serums
   of this invention it will typically be incorporated at a level which is within the range of about
   1 weight percent to about 10 weight percent. Clioquinol will more typically be incorporated
15 into the antifungal serums of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 2
   weight percent to about 4 weight percent and will preferably be included at a level of which
   is within the range of about 2.5 weight percent to about 3.5 weight percent. It is normally
   most preferred for clioquinol to be included in the antifungal serums of this invention at a
   level of 3 weight percent.
20          In one embodiment of this invention the alkyl lactate is present in the antifungal
   serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to
   about 40 weight percent, wherein the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a level of
   about 15 weight percent to about 40 percent, wherein the an antifungal agent is at least one
   member selected from the group consisting of undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate,
25 cobalt undecylenate, zinc undecylenate present, and wherein the antifungal agent is present
   at a level of about 20 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
            In another embodiment of this invention the alkyl lactate is present in the antifungal
   serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to
   about 40 weight percent, wherein the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a level of
30 about 15 weight percent to about 40 percent, wherein the an antifungal agent is at least one

                                                 - 18
   member selected from the group consisting of undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate,
   cobalt undecylenate, zinc undecylenate present, and wherein the antifungal agent is present
   at a level of about 20 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
           In a further embodiment of this invention the alkyl lactate is present in the antifungal
 5 serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to
   about 35 weight percent, wherein the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a level of
   about 15 weight percent to about 35 percent, wherein the an antifungal agent is at least one
   member selected from the group consisting of undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate,
   cobalt undecylenate, zinc undecylenate present, and wherein the antifungal agent is present
10 at a level of about 20 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
           In a further embodiment of this invention the alkyl lactate is present in the antifungal
   serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to
   about 30 weight percent, wherein the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a level of
   about 15 weight percent to about 30 percent, wherein the an antifungal agent is at least one
15 member selected from the group consisting of undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate,
   cobalt undecylenate, zinc undecylenate present, and wherein the antifungal agent is present
   at a level of about 20 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
           In still another embodiment of this invention the alkyl lactate is present in the
   antifungal serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight
20 percent to about 25 weight percent, wherein the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a
   level of about 15 weight percent to about 25 percent, wherein the an antifungal agent is at
   least one member selected from the group consisting of undecylenic acid, calcium
   undecylenate, cobalt undecylenate, zinc undecylenate present, and wherein the antifungal
   agent is present at a level of about 20 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
25         In another embodiment of this invention the alkyl lactate is present in the antifungal
   serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 20 weight percent to
   about 80 weight percent, the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a level of about 20
   weight percent to about 80 percent, and the antifungal agent is selected from the group
   consisting of haloprogin, tolnaftate, or clotrimazoleand is present at a level which is within
30 the range of about 0.25 weight percent to about 2 weight percent. In such compositions it is

                                                  - 19
   typically preferred for the alkyl lactate to be present in the antifungal serum at a level which
   is within the range of about 20 weight percent to about 80 weight percent, for the
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil to be present at a level of about 20 weight percent to about 80
   percent, and for the antifungal selected from the group consisting of haloprogin, tolnaftate,
 5 or clotrimazoleand to be present at a level which is within the range of about 0.5 weight
   percent to about 1.5 weight. In such compositions it is typically more preferred for the alkyl
   lactate to be present in the antifungal serum at a level which is within the range of about 20
   weight percent to about 80 weight percent, for the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil to be
   present at a level of about 20 weight percent to about 80 percent, and for the antifungal
10 selected from the group consisting of haloprogin, tolnaftate, or clotrimazoleand to be present
   at a level which is within the range of about 0.75 weight percent to about 1.75 weight. In
   such compositions it is typically most preferred for the alkyl lactate to be present in the
   antifungal serum at a level which is within the range of about 20 weight percent to about 80
   weight percent, for the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil to be present at a level of about 20
15 weight percent to about 80 percent, and for the antifungal selected from the group consisting
   of haloprogin, tolnaftate, or clotrimazoleand to be present at a level of about 1 weight
   percent. The antifungal agent use in such antifungal serums will typically consist solely of
   tolnaftate at a level of 1 weight percent.
            The antifungal serum can also include a wide variety of other oils. These additional
20 oils are typically vegetable oils, such as peppermint oil and/or tea tree oil. Peppermint oil
   can optionally be included at a level which is within the range of about 5 weight percent to
   about 45 weight percent and is typically included at a level which is within the range of
   about 5 weight percent to about 40 weight percent. Peppermint oil is commonly included at
   a level which is within the range of about 10 weight percent to about 35 weight percent and
25 is more commonly included at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent
   to about 30 weight percent. Peppermint oil is preferably included in the antifungal serums
   of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 25
   weight percent.
            Tea tree oil can optionally be included at a level which is within the range of about 5
30 weight percent to about 45 weight percent and is typically included at a level which is within

                                                 - 20
   the range of about 5 weight percent to about 40 weight percent. Tea tree oil is commonly
   included at a level which is within the range of about 10 weight percent to about 35 weight
   percent and is more commonly included at a level which is within the range of about 15
   weight percent to about 30 weight percent. Tea tree oill is preferably included in the
 5 antifungal serums of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight
   percent to about 25 weight percent.
            In one embodiment of this invention the additional oil in the antifungal serum is a
   combination of peppermint oil and tea tree oil, wherein the peppermint oil is present at a
   level which is within the range of about 5 weight percent to about 45 weight percent, and
10 wherein the peppermint oil is present at a level which is within the range of about 5 weight
   percent to about 45 weight percent. In another embodiment of this invention the additional
   oil is a combination of peppermint oil and tea tree oil, wherein the peppermint oil is present
   at a level which is within the range of about 5 weight percent to about 40 weight percent,
   and wherein the peppermint oil is present at a level which is within the range of about 5
15 weight percent to about 40 weight percent.
            In a further embodiment of this invention the additional oil is a combination of
   peppermint oil and tea tree oil, wherein the peppermint oil is present at a level which is
   within the range of about 10 weight percent to about 35 weight percent, and wherein the
   peppermint oil is present at a level which is within the range of about 10 weight percent to
20 about 35 weight percent. In still another embodiment of this invention the additional oil is a
   combination of peppermint oil and tea tree oil, wherein the peppermint oil is present at a
   level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, and
   wherein the peppermint oil is present at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight
   percent to about 30 weight percent. In a preferred embodiment of this invention the
25 additional oil additional oil is a combination of peppermint oil and tea tree oil, wherein the
   peppermint oil is present at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to
   about 25 weight percent, and wherein the peppermint oil is present at a level which is within
   the range of about 15 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
            A highly preferred antifungal serum which utilizes undecylenic acid as its antifungal
30 agent is comprised of isoamyl lactate which is present at a level which is within the range of

                                                  - 21
   about 15 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, Simmondsia chinesis seed oil which is
   present at a level of about 15 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, undecylenic acid
   which is present at a level with is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 30
   weight percent, the peppermint oil which is present at a level which is within the range of
 5 about 15 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, and tea tree oil which is present in the at
   a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 30 weight percent. In
   such formulations the the isoamyl lactate will typically be present at a level which is within
   the range of about 15 weight percent to about 25 weight percent, the Simmondsia chinesis
   seed oil will typically be present at a level of about 15 weight percent to about 25 weight
10 percent, the undecylenic acid will typically be present at a level with is within the range of
   about 20 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, the peppermint oil will typically be
   present at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 25 weight
   percent, and the tea tree oil will typically be present in the at a level which is within the
   range of about 15 weight percent to about 25 weight percent. In such formulations the
15 isoamyl lactate will more typically be present at a level which is within the range of about
   18 weight percent to about 22 weight percent, the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will more
   typically be present at a level of about 18 weight percent to about 22 weight percent, the
   undecylenic acid will more typically be present at a level with is within the range of about
   23 weight percent to about 27 weight percent, the peppermint oil will more typically be
20 present at a level which is within the range of about 18 weight percent to about 22 weight
   percent, and the tea tree oil will more typically be present in the at a level which is within
   the range of about 18 weight percent to about 22 weight percent. In such formulations the
   isoamyl lactate will generally be present at a level which is within the range of about 18
   weight percent to about 20 weight percent, the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will generally
25 be present at a level of about 18 weight percent to about 20 weight percent, the undecylenic
   acid will generally be present at a level with is within the range of about 24 weight percent
   to about 26 weight percent, the peppermint oil will generally be present at a level which is
   within the range of about 18 weight percent to about 20 weight percent, and the tea tree oil
   will generally be present in the at a level which is within the range of about 18 weight
30 percent to about 20 weight percent.

                                                  - 22
            Another preferred antifungal serum which utilizes tolnaftate as its antifungal agent is
   comprised of isoamyl lactate which is present at a level which is within the range of about
   15 weight percent to about 40 weight percent, Simmondsia chinesis seed oil which is present
   at a level of about 15 weight percent to about 40 weight percent, tolnaftate which is present
 5 at a level with is within the range of about 0.25 weight percent to about 2 weight percent,
   peppermint oil which is present at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight
   percent to about 40 weight percent, and tea tree oil which is present in the at a level which is
   within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 40 weight percent. In such
   formulations the isoamyl lactate is typically present at a level which is within the range of
10 about 15 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is
   typically present at a level of about 15 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, the
   tolnaftate is typically present at a level with is within the range of about 0.5 weight percent
   to about 1.5 weight percent, the peppermint oil is typically present at a level which is within
   the range of about 15 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, and the tea tree oil is
15 present is typically present the at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight
   percent to about 30 weight percent. In such formulations the isoamyl lactate is more
   typically present at a level which is within the range of about 20 weight percent to about 35
   weight percent, the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is more typically present at a level of
   about 20 weight percent to about 35 weight percent, the tolnaftate is more typically present
20 at a level with is within the range of about 0.75 weight percent to about 1.25 weight percent,
   the peppermint oil is more typically present at a level which is within the range of about 20
   weight percent to about 35 weight percent, and the tea tree oil is more typically present in
   the at a level which is within the range of about 20 weight percent to about 35 weight
   percent. In such formulations the isoamyl lactate is normally present at a level which is
25 within the range of about 20 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, the Simmondsia
   chinesis seed oil is normally present at a level of about 20 weight percent to about 30 weight
   percent, the tolnaftate is normally present at a level with is within the range of about 0.75
   weight percent to about 1.25 weight percent, the peppermint oil is normally present at a level
   which is within the range of about 20 weight percent to about 30 weight percent, and the tea
30 tree oil is normally present in the at a level which is within the range of about 20 weight

                                                 - 23
   percent to about 30 weight percent. In such antifungal serum formulations the isoamyl
   lactate is generally present at a level which is within the range of about 22 weight percent to
   about 28 weight percent, the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is generally present at a level of
   about 22 weight percent to about 28 weight percent, the tolnaftate is generally present at a
 5 level with is within the range of about 0.75 weight percent to about 1.25 weight percent, the
   peppermint oil is generally present at a level which is within the range of about 22 weight
   percent to about 28 weight percent, and the tea tree oil is generally present in the at a level
   which is within the range of about 22 weight percent to about 28 weight percent.
           In another embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical agent is carnosic acid
10 which is a naturally occurring antioxidant. Carnosic acid can be included in the
   formulations of this invention to provide a serum which can be topically applied to skin to
   provide it with a higher level of protection against photo-induced and other types of
   oxidative attack. The carnosic acid will typically be included in the skin cream formulation
   at a level which is within the range of 0.01 weight percent to 3 weight percent. It is
15 normally preferred to include the carnosic acid at a level which is within the range of 0.05
   weight percent to 1.5 weight percent with levels of 0.1 weight percent to 1 weight percent
   being most preferred. The carnosic acid is naturally found in Libiatae plants, such as
   rosemary, marjoram, and sage. United States Patent 5,859,293 and United States Patent
   5,256,700 disclose techniques for extracting high purity carnosic acid from rosemary and
20 sage. For example, United States Patent 5,256,700 discloses a process for obtaining
   camosic acid comprising extracting a vegetable material selected from the group consisting
   of sage and rosemary with an apolar solvent to obtain an extract containing apolar
   compounds including carnosic acid, contacting the extract with an adsorbent material having
   an affinity for polar compounds for adsorbing the carnosic acid to separate the carnosic acid
25 from the apolar compounds of the extract, desorbing the adsorbent material with a polar
   solvent to obtain the carnosic acid in the solvent and then evaporating the polar solvent from
   the carnosic acid to obtain a residue containing the camosic acid.
            Some methods for the preparation of camosic acid by chemical synthesis have also
   been proposed in the literature by W. L. Meyer et al. [Tetrahedron Letters 1966, 4261; 1968,
30 2963; J. Org. Chem. 41, 1005 (1976)]. However, the syntheses involved are long and

                                                  - 24
   complex and, for economic reasons, cannot be applied to an industrial process. In addition,
   these syntheses lead to racemic mixtures of camosic acid precursors and not to the pure
   enantiomers. It should also be pointed out that these works stop at the preparation of
   camosic acid precursors and omit to describe the final preparation step(s). Another method
 5 of obtaining carnosic acid has been described in the literature by Brieskorn and Domling
   [Arch. Pharm. 302, 641 (1969)], comprising the catalytic reduction of carnosol. Once again,
   the application of this process on a large scale is not be envisaged because carnosol is not
   readily available on a commercial basis. For these reasons the carnosic acid used in the skin
   creams formulations of this invention will normally be obtained by extraction from a
10 Libiatae plant, such as rosemary or marjoram. Accordingly, rosemary or marjoram extract
   will typically be used in the practice of this invention as the source of camosic acid.
   However, to reduce the possibility of allergic reactions to the skin cream formulation the
   skin cream formulation will preferably be free of rosemary, sage, marjoram and other
   Libiatae plants.
15         Carnosic acid will typically be incorporated into the pharmaceutical serums of this
   invention as the extract of a Libiatae plant, such as rosemary or marjoram. In most cases the
   extract of the Libiatae plant will be included in the pharmaceutical serum at a level of about
   0.5 weight percent to about 30 weight percent. The extract of the Libiatae plant will
   typically be included in the pharmaceutical serum at a level of about 1 weight percent to
20 about 15 weight percent, and will more typically be included at a level of about 2 weight
   percent to about 10 weight percent. It is normally preferred to include the extract of the
   Libiatae plant in the pharmaceutical serum at a level of about 3 weight percent to about 8
   weight percent. Such a sink rejuvenation serum can optionally contain up to about 5 weight
   percent glycerin and up to about 5 weight percent propylene glycol. It is typically preferred
25 for such compositions to contain from about 0.05 weight percent to about 3 weight percent
   glycerin and from about 0.01 weight percent to about 3 weight percent propylene glycol. It
   is typically more preferred for such compositions to contain from about 0.1 weight percent
   to about 1 weight percent glycerin and from about 0.05 weight percent to about 0.5 weight
   percent propylene glycol.
30         In another embodiment of this invention idebenone is included in the pharmaceutical

                                                 - 25
   serums of this invention as an antioxidant. Idebenone will typically be present in such
   pharmaceutical serums at a level which is within the range of about 0.01 weight percent to
   about 5 weight percent. The idebenone will preferably be present in such pharmaceutical
   serums formulation at a level which is within the range of about 0.05 weight percent to
 5 about 3 weight percent and will more preferably be present at a level which is within the
   range of about 0.1 weight percent to about 1 weight percent.
           Palmitoyl pentapeptide stimulates human fibroblasts to produce collagen and elastin
   which fight wrinkle formation and can reduce or eliminate existing wrinkles. However, as
   with all active ingredients in antiwrinkle formulations palmitoyl pentapeptide needs to be
10 delivered deep into the dermis of the skin structure to attain a maximum level of
   effectiveness. In still another embodiment of this invention pharmaceutical serums can be
   compounded with palmitoyl pentapeptide to facilitate its topical delivery deep into the
   dermis of human patients. In such an embodiment of this invention the palmitoyl
   pentapeptide can accordingly be included in the pharmaceutical serum at a level which is
15 within the range of about 0.05 weight percent to about 8 weight percent. In such
   pharmaceutical serums the palmitoyl pentapeptide will more typically be included at a level
   which is within the range of about 0.5 weight percent to about 6 weight percent, and will
   preferably be include at a level which is within the range of about 1 weight percent to about
   5 weight percent. The palmitoyl pentapeptide will more preferably be included in the
20 pharmaceutical serums of this invention at a level which is within the range of 2 weight
   percent to 4 weight percent.
           In a further embodiment of this invention a hair growth stimulant is included in the
   pharmaceutical serum of this invention as the pharmaceutical agent. In most cases the hair
   growth stimulant will be a antihypertensive vasodilator medication, such as minoxidil (6-(1
25 piperidinyl)-2,4-pyrimidinedia mine 3-oxide) which is included in the serum at a level which
   is within the range of about 0.5 weight percent to about 12 weight percent. The hair growth
   stimulant will more typically be included in the serum at a level which is within the range of
   about 1 weight percent to about 8 weight percent. The hair growth stimulant will most
   typically be included in the serum at a level which is within the range of about 2 weight
30 percent to about 5 weight percent. Such hair growth serums can be topically applied to an

                                                 - 26
   area of skin where hair growth is desired to facilitate such hair growth. In most cases the
   hair growth serum will be applied repeatedly to the area of skin over an extended period of
   time during which hair growth and hair maintenance in the area is desired. In most cases the
   hair growth serum will be applied at least once a day and can optionally be multiple times
 5 each day, such as twice a day. For instance, the hair growth serum can be applied every
   morning and in the evening during the treatment period which can extend over many years.
           In another embodiment of this invention a vitamin A derivative selected from the
   group consisting of retinol and retinoic acid is included in a skin rejuvenation serum.
   Retinol based skin rejuvenation serums will typically contain retinol a level which is within
10 the range of about 0.1 weight percent to about 15 weight percent. Such serums will more
   typically contain from about 0.5 weight percent to about 12 weight percent retinol and will
   more typically contain from 1 weight percent to 10 weight percent retinol. It is preferred for
   such skin rejuvenation serums to contain from about 3 weight percent to about 8 weight
   percent retinol. On the other hand, retinoic acid based skin rejuvenation serums will
15 typically contain from about 0.005 weight percent to about 0.5 weight percent retinoic acid.
   Such skin rejuvenation serums will more typically contain from about 0.01 weight percent to
   about 0.4 weight percent retinoic acid and will preferably contain from about 0.02 weight
   percent to about 0.3 weight percent retinoic acid. Such skin rejuvenation serums will more
   preferably contain from about 0.03 weight percent to about 0.2 weight percent retinoic acid
20 and will most preferably contain from about 0.04 weight percent to about 0.1 weight percent
   retinoic acid.
           In a further embodiment of this invention an antimicrobial agent is included in the
   pharmaceutical serum of this invention. Some representative examples of antimicrobial
   agents that can be use include 2,4,4'-trichloro-2'-hydroxydiphenyl ether (or triclosan), 3,4,4'
25 trichlorobanilide, phenoxyethanol, phenoxypropanol, phenoxyisopropanol, hexamidine
   isethionate, metronidazole and its salts, miconazole and its salts, itraconazole, terconazole,
   econazole, ketoconazole, saperconazole, fluconazole, clotrimazole, butoconazole,
   oxiconazole, sulfaconazole, sulconazole, terbinafine, ciclopirox, ciclopiroxolamine,
   undecylenic acid and its salts, benzoyl peroxide, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic
30 acid, phytic acid, N-acetyl-L-cysteine acid, lipoic acid, azelaic acid and its salts, arachidonic

                                                 - 27
   acid, resorcinol, 2,4,4'-trichloro-2'-hydroxydiphenyl ether, 3,4,4'-trichlorocarbanilide,
   octopirox, octoxyglycerine, octanoylglycine, caprylyl glycol, 10-hydroxy-2-decanoic acid,
   dichlorophenyl imidazole dioxolane and its derivatives, described in patent WO 93/18743,
   farnesol and phytosphingosines, and mixtures thereof. The preferred antibacterial agents are
 5 triclosan, phenoxyethanol, octoxyglycerine, octanoylglycine, 10-hydroxy-2-decanoic acid,
   caprylyl glycol, farnesol and azelaic acid. Such antimicrobial agents will typically be
   included at a level which is within the range of 0.1 weight percent to 20 weight percent and
   will more typically be included at a level which is within the range of preferably from 0.2
   weight percent to 10 weight percent relative to the total weight of the pharmaceutical serum.
10         In still another embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical serum can include
   an agent for stimulating the synthesis of dermal or epidermal macromolecules and/or for
   preventing their degradation as the pharmaceutical agent. Among the active agents for
   stimulating dermal macromolecules or for preventing their degradation, mention may be
   made of those that act: either on collagen synthesis, such as extracts of Centella asiatica;
15 asiaticosides and derivatives; ascorbic acid or vitamin C and its derivatives; synthetic
   peptides such as lamin, biopeptide CL or the palmitoyloligopeptide sold by the company
   Sederma; peptides extracted from plants, such as the soybean hydrolysate sold by the
   company Coletica under the trade name Phytokine@; and plant hormones such as auxins and
   lignans; or on elastin synthesis, such as the extract of Saccharomyces cerivisiae sold by the
20 company LSN under the trade name Cytovitin@; and the extract of the alga Macrocystis
   pyrifera sold by the company Secma under the trade name Kelpadelie@; or on
   glycosaminoglycan synthesis, such as the product of fermentation of milk with Lactobacillus
   vulgaris, sold by the company Brooks under the trade name Biomin yogourth@; the extract
   of the brown alga Padina pavonica sold by the company Alban Muller under the trade name
25 HSP3; and the extract of Saccharomyces cerevisiae available especially from the company
   Silab under the trade name Firmalift@ or from the company LSN under the trade name
   Cytovitin@; or on fibronectin synthesis, such as the extract of the zooplankton Salina sold
   by the company Seporga under the trade name GP4G@; the yeast extract available
   especially from the company Alban Muller under the trade name Drieline; and the
30 palmitoyl pentapeptide sold by the company Sederma under the trade name Matrixil; or on

                                                 -28
   the inhibition of metalloproteases (MMPs), such as, more particularly, MMP 1, 2, 3 or 9.
   Mention may be made of: retinoids and derivatives, oligopeptides and lipopeptides,
   lipoamino acids, the malt extract sold by the company Coletica under the trade name
   Collalift@; extracts of blueberry or of rosemary; lycopene; isoflavones, their derivatives or
 5 plant extracts containing them, in particular extracts of soybean (sold, for example, by the
   company Ichimaru Pharcos under the trade name Flavosterone SB),of red clover, of flax,
   of kakkon, or of sage; or on the inhibition of serine proteases such as leukocyte elastase or
   cathepsin G. Mention may be made of: the peptide extract of Leguminosa seeds (Pisum
   sativum) sold by the company LSN under the trade name Parelastyl@; heparinoids; and
10 pseudodipeptides such as {2-[acetyl-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)amino]-3
   methylbutynylamino} acetic acid.
            Among the active agents that stimulate epidermal macromolecules, such as fillagrin
   and keratins, mention may be made especially of the extract of lupin sold by the company
   Silab under the trade name Structurine@; the extract of beech Fagus sylvatica buds sold by
15 the company Gattefosse under the trade name Gatuline; and the extract of the zooplankton
   Salina sold by the company Seporga under the trade name GP4G@.
            The pharmaceutical serum of this invention can optionally contain an agent for
   stimulating the proliferation of fibroblasts or keratinocytes and/or keratinocyte
   differentiation as the pharmaceutical agent. The agents for stimulating the proliferation of
20 fibroblasts that may be used in the composition according to the invention may be chosen,
   for example, from plant proteins or polypeptides, extracts, especially of soybean (for
   example an extract of soybean sold by the company LSN under the name Eleseryl SH-VEG
   8 or sold by the company Silab under the trade name Raffermine); and plant hormones
   such as giberrellins and cytokinins.
25          The agents for stimulating the proliferation of keratinocytes that may be used in the
   composition according to the invention especially comprise retinoids, such as retinol and its
   esters, including retinyl palmitate; phloroglucinol; extracts of nut cakes sold by the company
   Gattefosse; and extracts of Solanum tuberosum sold by the company Sederma.
            The agents for stimulating keratinocyte differentiation comprise, for example,
30 minerals such as calcium; the extract of lupin sold by the company Silab under the trade

                                                 - 29
   name Photopreventine@; sodium beta-sitosteryl sulphate sold by the company Seporga
   under the trade name Phytocohesine@; and the extract of corn sold by the company Solabia
   under the trade name Phytovityl@; and lignans such as secoisolariciresinol. The
   composition according to the invention comprising these compounds is preferably intended
 5 to be used for preventing or treating signs of ageing of the skin.
           The pharmaceutical serum of this invention can optionally further contain a dermo
   decontracting agent as the pharmaceutical agent. The dermo-decontracting agents that may
   be used in the pharmaceutical serum of this invention include alverine and its salts,
   manganese gluconate, Diazepam, the hexapeptide argireline R sold by the company Lipotec,
10 certain carbonylated secondary and tertiary amines, adenosine, and also sapogenins and the
   natural extracts, in particular of Wild Yam, containing them.
           The pharmaceutical serum of this invention can optionally further contain agents for
   acting on the capillary circulation as their pharmaceutical agent. The active agents acting on
   the capillary circulation (vasoprotective or vasodilating agents) may be chosen from
15 flavonoids, ruscogenins, esculosides, escin extracted from common horse chestnut,
   nicotinates, heperidine methyl chalcone, essential oils of lavender or of rosemary, and
   extracts of Ammi visnaga. The amount of these active agents may vary within a wide range.
   In general, these active agents are present in a concentration ranging from 0.01% to 15% and
   preferably from 0.05% to 10% by weight relative to the total weight of the pharmaceutical
20 serum.
           The pharmaceutical serum of this invention can optionally further contain agents
   acting on the energy metabolism of cells as their pharmaceutical serum. The active agents
   concerned are those acting on the energy metabolism of the skin, for instance, and in a non
   limiting manner, ATP synthesis, and also those involved in the respiratory chain of the cell
25 or in the energy reserves. Mention may be made of coenzyme Q1O (ubiquinone),
   cytochrome C, creatine or phosphocreatine.
           The alkyl lactate will typically be present in the pharmaceutical serums of this
   invention at a level which is within the range of about 5 weight percent to about 80 weight
   percent and will more typically be present at a level which is within the range of about 10
30 weight percent to about 70 weight percent. The alkyl lactate will commonly be present in

                                                  - 30
   the pharmaceutical serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of about 10
   weight percent to about 60 weight percent and will more commonly be present at a level
   which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 60 weight percent. In most
   cases, the alkyl lactate will typically be present in the pharmaceutical serum of this invention
 5 at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 50 weight percent.
           The Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will typically be present in the pharmaceutical
   serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of f about 5 weight percent to
   about 80 percent and more typically be present at a level which is within the range of about
   10 weight percent to about 70 percent. The Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will commonly be
10 present in the pharmaceutical serum of this invention at a level which is within the range of
   about 10 weight percent to about 60 percent and more typically will be present at a level
   which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 50 percent. In most cases, the
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil will be present in the pharmaceutical serum of this invention
   at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 45 percent and in
15 many cases will preferably be present at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight
   percent to about 40 percent.
           The level of pharmaceutical agent which is present in the pharmaceutical serums of
   this invention will very greatly with the nature of the pharmaceutical agent and the
   therapeutic result which is desired. However, the pharmaceutical agent will typically be
20 present in the pharmaceutical serums of this invention at a level which is within the range of
   0.001 weight percent to 40 weight percent and will more typically be present at a level
   which is within the range of about 0.01 weight percent to 35 weight percent. The
   pharmaceutical agent will commonly be present in the pharmaceutical serums of this
   invention at a level which is within the range of 0.02 weight percent to 30 weight percent
25 and can be present at a level which is within the range of about 0.025 weight percent to 25
   weight percent. For instance, the pharmaceutical agent can be present in the pharmaceutical
   serums of this invention at a level which is within the range of 0.05 weight percent to 25
   weight percent. In some cases the pharmaceutical agent will be present at a relatively low
   level which is within the range of 0.01 weight percent to 0.5 weight percent or which is
30 within the range of 0.02 weight percent to 0.3 weight percent. In other cases the

                                                    -31
   pharmaceutical agent will be present at a relatively level which is within the range of 0.1
   weight percent to 25 weight percent or which is within the range of 5 weight percent to 25
   weight percent or which is within the range of 10 weight percent to 25 weight percent or
   which is within the range of 15 weight percent to 25 weight percent.
 5         The pharmaceutical serum of this invention can also include a wide variety of other
   oils. These additional oils are typically vegetable oils (oils of plant origin), mineral oils
   (liquid petroleum jelly), oils of animal origin (such as lanolin), synthetic oils
   (perhydrosqualene), or a silicone oils (cyclomethicone). The vegetable oils that can be
   included in the pharmaceutical serum of this invention include avocado oil, soybean oil,
10 coconut oil, shea butter, almond oil, eucalyptus essential oil, olive oil, hazelnut oil, walnut
   oil, peanut oil, corn oil, caster oil, soy oil, canola oil, rapeseed oil, cottonseed oil, palm oil,
   sesame oil, sunflower oil, safflower oil, rice bran oil, borage seed oil, syzigium aromaticum
   oil, hempseed oil, flaxseed oil, rape seed oil, evening primrose oil, rosehip oil, and
   melaleuca oil. Some representative examples of animal based oils that can optionally be
15 utilized include lanolin, various fish oils, such as herring oil, cod-liver oil, and salmon oil.
   Typically, the pharmaceutical serum of this invention will be void of these additional oils
   since they are not believed to serve any beneficial purpose and dilute the levels of the more
   desirable components of the serum, such as the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil and the alkyl
   lactate which facilitate the delivery of the pharmaceutical agent into the skin. Accordingly,
20 in cases where such oisl are included in the pharmaceutical serum their total level will
   normally be limited to be within the range of 0 weight percent to about 25 weight percent
   and will more typically be limited to be within the range of 0 weight percent to 10 weight
   percent, based upon the total weight of the pharmaceutical serum. In cases where such
   additional oils are included they will normally be present in a total amount which is within
25 the range of about 1 weight percent to about 5 weight percent.
           Fatty alcohols (cetyl alcohol), fatty acids, petrolatum, and waxes (camauba wax or
   ozokerite) can also optionally be included in the pharmaceutical serum of this invention.
   Petrolatum or mineral oil components, which when selected will generally be USP or NF
   grade. The petrolatum may be white or yellow. The viscosity or consistency grade of
30 petrolatum is not narrowly critical. Petrolatum can be partially replaced with mixtures of

                                                  - 32
   hydrocarbon materials, which can be formulated to resemble petrolatum in appearance and
   consistency. For example, mixtures of petrolatum or mineral oil with different waxes and
   the like may be combined. Preferred waxes include bayberry wax, candelilla wax, ceresin,
   jojoba butter, lanolin wax, montan wax, ozokerite, polyglyceryl-3-beeswax, polyglyceryl-6
 5 pentastearate, microcrystalline wax, paraffin wax, isoparaffin, vaseline solid paraffin,
   squalene, oligomer olefins, beeswax, synthetic candelilla wax, synthetic carnauba, synthetic
   beeswax and the like may be blended together. Typically, the pharmaceutical serum of this
   invention will be void of petrolatum and waxes since they are not believed to serve any
   beneficial purpose and dilute the levels of more desirable ingredients. Accordingly, in cases
10 where petrolatum and/or waxes are included in the pharmaceutical serum their total level
   will normally be limited to be within the range of 0 weight percent to about 25 weight
   percent and will more typically be limited to be within the range of 0 weight percent to 10
   weight percent, based upon the total weight of the pharmaceutical serum. In cases where
   petrolatum and/or such waxes are included they will normally be present in a total amount
15 which is within the range of about 1 weight percent to about 5 weight percent.
            The pharmaceutical serum of this invention can be made by simply mixing the
   desired constituents under conditions that are adequate to attain an essentially homogeneous
   mixture at a temperature which is typically within the range of about 10 C to about 1000 C.
   In most cases this can be accomplished by mixing the constituents at room temperature
20 (18'C to 23'C). However, in some cases it is desirable to heat the components being mixed
   to a slightly elevated temperature which is within the range of about 30'C to 60'C to
   facilitate mixing.
            This invention is illustrated by the following examples that are merely for the
   purpose of illustration and are not to be regarded as limiting the scope of the invention or the
25 manner in which it can be practiced. Unless specifically indicated otherwise, parts and
   percentages are given by weight.
                                               Example 1
            In this experiment an antifungal serum of this invention was prepared by adding 25
30 ml of jojoba oil (filtered and unrefined), 25 ml of peppermint oil, 25 ml of tea tree oil, 25 ml

                                                 - 33
   of isoamyl lactate, and 25 ml of undecylenic acid to a 250 ml beaker. Then, the mixture of
   liquids were well mixed with a stirring rod to make the antifungal serum.
            The antifungal serum was subsequently used to treat the toenail of a 59 year old male
   who was suffering from onychomycosis. The onychomycosis was the result of trauma
 5 caused by stubbing the big toe of the patient on a bed post. In this case, the onychomycosis
   was black in appearance and was located under the toenail. The antifungal serum was
   brushed onto the infected toe of the patient every morning, in the early afternoon, and in the
   evening every day.
            After about one week of treatment the black color of the fungus lightened and the
10 toenail returned to a relatively normal appearance. The application of the antifungal serum
   was continued in the morning and in the evening for about 6 months to allow the infected
   toenail to completely grow out leaving only a normal nail structure. There was no
   reoccurrence of the onychomycosis after another 6 months. In other words, the patient
   remained free of fungus for 6 months after discontinuing treatment with the antifungal
15 serum.
                                               Example 2
            An antifungal serum was made as described in Example 1 and was subsequently
   used to treat a patient with Down's Syndrome who had been suffering from onychomycosis
20 for many years. All ten of toes of this 30 year old male subject were severely infected with
   onychomycosis. In any case, the antifungal serum was applied to the toenails of the patient
   at least twice every day. After about 6 months of treatment the onychomycosis was
   completely eliminated from all of the toes of this patient. However, onychomycosis did
   reoccur and treatment was resumed on the infected toes. The subsequent treatment again
25 eliminated the onychomycosis after several months of further treatment.
                                              Example 3
            An antifungal serum was made as described in Example 1 and was subsequently
   used to treat a patient with diabetes mellitus who had been suffering from onychomycosis
30 for many years. All ten of toes of this 65 year old male subject were severely infected with

                                                 - 34
   onychomycosis. In any case, the antifungal serum was applied to the toenails of the patient
   at least twice every day. After about 6 months of treatment the onychomycosis was
   completely eliminated from all of the toes of this patient. There was no reoccurrence of the
   onychomycosis after another 2 months. In other words, the patient remained free of fungus
 5 for 2 months after discontinuing treatment with the antifungal serum.
                                               Example 4
            An antifungal serum was made as described in Example 1 and was subsequently
   used to treat a 75 year old female patient that was otherwise healthy who had been suffering
10 from onychomycosis for about 6 months. She had previously treated the onychomycosis
   which several over the counter products without success. Most of her toes were severely
   infected with the onychomycosis. In any case, the antifungal serum was applied to the
   toenails of the patient at least twice every day. After about 6 months of treatment the
   onychomycosis was completely eliminated from all of the toes of this patient. There was no
15 reoccurrence of the onychomycosis after another 6 months. In other words, the patient
   remained free of fungus for 6 months after discontinuing treatment with the antifungal
   serum.
                                               Example 5
20          An antifungal serum was made as described in Example 1 and was subsequently
   used to treat a 55 year old female patient that was otherwise healthy who had been suffering
   from onychomycosis for over 2 years. She had previously treated the onychomycosis which
   several over the counter products without success. Most of her toes were severely infected
   with the onychomycosis. In any case, the antifungal serum was applied to the toenails of the
25 patient at least twice every day. After about 6 months of treatment the onychomycosis was
   completely eliminated from all of the toes of this patient. There was no reoccurrence of the
   onychomycosis after another 6 months. In other words, the patient remained free of fungus
   for 6 months after discontinuing treatment with the antifungal serum.

                                                 - 35
                                              Example 6
            In this experiment a skin rejuvenation serum of this invention was prepared by
   adding 90 ml of jojoba oil (filtered and unrefined), 5 ml of rosemary extract, and 5 ml of
 5 isoamyl lactate to a 150 ml beaker. Then, the mixture of liquids was then well mixed with a
   stirring rod to make a skin rejuvenation serum.
                                              Example 7
            In this experiment a skin rejuvenation serum of this invention was prepared by
10 adding 88 ml of jojoba oil (filtered and unrefined), 5 ml of rosemary extract, 5 ml of isoamyl
   lactate, 1 ml of glycerin, and 1 ml of propylene glycol to a 150 ml beaker. Then, the mixture
   of liquids was then well mixed with a stirring rod to make a skin rejuvenation serum.
                                              Example 8
15          In this experiment a skin rejuvenation serum of this invention was prepared by
   adding about 50 ml of jojoba oil (filtered and unrefined), 5 ml of rosemary extract, and 50
   ml of isoamyl lactate to a 150 ml beaker. Then, the mixture of liquids was then well mixed
   with a stirring rod to make a skin rejuvenation serum.
            While certain representative embodiments and details have been shown for the
20 purpose of illustrating the subject invention, it will be apparent to those skilled in this art
   that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the
   scope of the subject invention.

                                                 - 36
    CLAIMS
           1.      A pharmaceutical serum which is comprised of (1) an alkyl lactate, wherein
   the alkyl group in the alkyl lactate contains from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms, (2)
 5 Simmondsia chinesis seed oil, and (3) a pharmaceutical agent.
           2.      The pharmaceutical serum as specified in claim 1 wherein the alkyl lactate is
   isoamyl lactate.
10         3.      The pharmaceutical serum as specified in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is golden Simmondsia chinesis seed oil.
           4.      The pharmaceutical serum as specified in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the
   Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is filtered.
15
           5.      The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein
   the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is refined.
           6.      The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of the preceding claims
20 wherein the alkyl lactate is present at a level which is within the range of about 5 weight
   percent to about 90 weight percent, wherein the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a
   level of about 5 weight percent to about 90 percent, and wherein the pharmaceutical agent is
   present at a level of about 0.01 weight percent to about 40 weight percent.
25         7.      The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of the preceding claims
   wherein the pharmaceutical agent is selected from the group consisting of antifungal agents,
   hormones, growth factors, antimicrobials, antibacterials, antibiotics, non-steroidal anti
   inflammatory agents, immunodilators, anesthetics, plant extracts, vitamins, corticosteroids,
   and hair growth stimulants.
30

                                                  - 37
           8.      The pharmaceutical serum as specified in claim 7 wherein the pharmaceutical
   agent is minoxidil.
           9.      The pharmaceutical serum as specified in claim 7 wherein the pharmaceutical
 5 agent is an antihypertensive vasodilator.
           10.     The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claims 1-6 wherein the
   pharmaceutical agent is a vitamin A derivative selected from the group consisting of retinol
   and retinoic acid.
10
           11.     The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claims 1-6 wherein the
   pharmaceutical agent is a growth factor.
           13.     The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claims 1-6 wherein the
15 pharmaceutical agent is an antifungal agent.
           14.     The pharmaceutical serum as specified in claim 13 wherein the antifungal
   agent is selected from the group consisting of clioquinol, haloprogin, miconazole nitrate,
   poridone-iodine, tolnaftate, undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate, cobalt undecylenate,
20 zinc undecylenate, and clotrimazole.
           15.     The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claim 13 wherein the
   antifungal agent is tolnaftate.
25         16.     The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claim 13 wherein the
   antifungal agent is undecylenic acid.
           17.     The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claim 14, 15, or 16 wherein
   the alkyl lactate is present at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to
30 about 50 weight percent, wherein the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a level of

                                                  - 38
   about 15 weight percent to about 50 percent, and wherein the an antifungal agent is present
   at a level of about 1 weight percent to about 30 weight percent.
            18.    The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claim 13 wherein the alkyl
 5 lactate is present at a level which is within the range of about 15 weight percent to about 40
   weight percent, wherein the Simmondsia chinesis seed oil is present at a level of about 15
   weight percent to about 40 percent, wherein the an antifungal agent is at least one member
   selected from the group consisting of undecylenic acid, calcium undecylenate, cobalt
   undecylenate, zinc undecylenate present, and wherein the antifungal agent is present at a
10 level of about 20 weight percent to about 25 weight percent.
            19.    The pharmaceutical serum as specified in any of claim 18 wherein the
   pharmaceutical serum is further comprised of peppermint oil.
15         20.     The pharmaceutical serum as specified in claim 19 wherein the
   pharmaceutical serum is further comprised of tea tree oil.
           21.     A method for treating a human fingernail or toenail which is infected with
   onychomycosis which comprised applying the pharmaceutical serum specified in any of
20 claims 13 through 20 to the infected nail.
           22.     A method for treating hair loss which comprised topically applying the
   pharmaceutical serum as specified in claim 8 or 9 to an area of skin where hair growth is
   desired.
25                                       Ad Lunam Labs Inc.
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON

