                                                      Abstract
               A game recommendation display device connected to a gaming system, or a
   gaming         system or          machine    including a  game   recommendation   function.  A
 5 computational device, having a display means and a player input includes a game
   selector which displays a selection of games available on the gaming system for the
   player to play.               The selection is ordered according to a ran king determined as a
   function of the player's past history of playing games and a history of games played by
   other players. Also described is a game selector which displays a plurality of game
10 categories, each game category associated with one or more of the plurality of games
   available on a gaming machine and is responsive to the selection of a category by the
   player to display a list of games with which the selected category is associated.
   9702781_1(GHMaters) P88328.AU.3

                                                 -1
                                      "Multigame selection"
   Cross-Reference to Related Applications
   The present application claims priority from           Provisional Patent Application No
 5 2003905171 filed on 22 September 2003, the contents of which is incorporated
   herein by reference.
   Introduction
   The present invention relates generally to the field of gaming and in particular the
10 invention provides an improved method of game selection in a multigame
   environment.
   Background of the invention
              A player in a casino is presented with a choice from among potentially
15 hundreds of gaming machines. Players develop a preference certain games from
   among all the ones available, and try various machines to find the ones they like.
   Given this large choice it can be difficult for a player to find games they like to play.
               Multi-game machines offer more than one game on a single electronic gaming
20 machine (EGM). This can dramatically increase the choices available to players, but
   makes it more difficult for the player to identify games that they like amongst the many
   games provided. As technology progresses and multi-game machines become more
   capable the number of games will increase even further as manufacturers entire game
   libraries could potentially become available on a single machine. Internet gaming web
25 sites have the same problem, with many games available via the one gaming terminal
   (eg a home computer).
               Gaming machines in a Casino are often networked for the purposes of security,
   accounting, credit transfer, bonusing, and for player marketing. These systems
30 typically track players using a magnetic card that the player inserts into the gaming
   machine, the magnetic card being associated with a player account on a central
   server. US patent 4,636,951 (Harlick) shows a system for networking gaming
   machines to provide a credit transfer mechanism between machines and a central
   cashier station.
35
               US patent 5,655,961 (Acres) shows a bonusing system, in which player
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                   -2
   tracking is provided via a magnetic card carried by a player and which the player
   inserts into a magnetic card reader in a gaming machine to identify the player to the
   machine and/or the entire system.
 5            Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations -such         as
   "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
   element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion
   of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
10            Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
   has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
   context for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
   these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
   field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim
15 of this application.
   Summary of the Invention
                          In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is
   provided a method of gaming on a gaming system comprising a gaming server, a
20 game selector, a plurality of gaming machines, and a communications system
   connecting each of the plurality of gaming machines to the gaming server, the gaming
   machines each having a display, a player interface, and a game controller arranged to
   control images displayed on the respective display, the method comprising the steps
   of:
25            tracking, on the gaming system, play of games played by a plurality of players
   on the gaming machines;
               displaying, on the display, a selection of a plurality of games available on a
   respective gaming machine for the player to play;
30
   selecting, using the game selector, one of the plurality games, the selection
   being determined dependent at least in part on the player's past history of playing
   games and a history of games played by other players; and
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                   -3
               initiating, using the game controller, play of the selected game at the respective
   gaming machine, the game having a game result which, if it is a winning result, will
   cause the game controller to award a prize to the player.
 5             In an embodiment, the player's past history of games comprises games played
   on the current machine in a current playing session only.
               In an embodiment, the player's past history of games comprises games played
   on any machine in the system in a current playing session and any previous session.
10
               In an embodiment, the history of games played by other players comprises a
   history of play on that gaming machine and not other gaming machines.
               The selection of games for display by the game selector and their order of
15 representation may be made by a recommendation engine.
               In an embodiment, the recommendation engine is located in the gaming
   machine.
20            In an embodiment, the recommendation              engine is located on a server
   connected to the communications system.
               In an embodiment, the recommendation engine collects player data on the
   playing habits of all distinguishable individuals who can be linked to a plurality of
25 game plays.
              The player data may be processed to determine the most popular games with
   particular individuals.
30            The player data may be processed to determine the groups of games that are
   popular with particular individuals.
               In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a method of gaming on a gaming machine connected to a gaming system wherein the
35 gaming system comprises a gaming server, a game selector, a plurality of said gaming
   machines, and a communications           system connecting each of the plurality of gaming
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                   -4
   machines to the gaming server, the gaming machine having a display, a player
   interface and a game controller arranged to control images displayed on the display,
   the method comprising the steps of:
 5             displaying, on the display, a selection of a plurality of games available on a
   respective gaming machine for the player to play;
   selecting, using the game selector, one of the plurality games, the selection
   being determined dependent at least in part on the player's past history of playing
10 games and a history of games played by other players; and
               initiating, using the game controller, play of the selected game at the respective
   gaming machine, the game having a game result which, if it is a winning result, will
   cause the game controller to award a prize to the player.
15
               In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   method of gaming on a gaming machine comprising a display, player interface, and
   game controller arranged to control images displayed on the display, the method
   comprising the steps of:
20
               tracking, on the gaming machine, play of games played on the gaming
   machine; selecting, using the game selector, one of a plurality games, the selection
   being determined dependent at least in part on the player's past history of playing
   games and a history of games played by other players; and
25
               initiating, using the game controller, play of the selected game at the gaming
   machine, the game having a game result which, if it is a winning result, will cause the
   game controller to award a prize to the player.
30             In an embodiment, for each game on the machine, the processed data results
   in a list of other games that would be of similar enjoyment value to the player and the
   list is used in forming the selection of games.
               In an embodiment, the plurality of games available on the gaming machine
35 comprise games stored on the system and accessible by the plurality of gaming
   machines.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                  -5
               In an embodiment, the player's past history of playing games and the history of
   games played by other players comprises a rank allocated to a game by the player and
   by the other players respectively.
 5             The selection of games may be determined dependent on age information
   relating to each of the plurality of games.
               In an embodiment, the selection of games is displayed according to a rank of
   each game in the selection, the rank of each game being determined by the selection
10 engine dependent on at least one of the player's past history of playing games and a
   history of games played by other players.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
              An embodiment of the invention is now described by way of example with
15 reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
               Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a first style of gaming machine, suitable
   for use in systems implementing embodiments of the present invention;
20 Figure 2 shows a perspective view of a second style of gaming machine, suitable for
   use in systems implementing embodiments of the present invention;
               Figure 3 shows a block diagram of a control circuit of the gaming machines of
   figures 1 and 2;
25
               Figure 4 shows a block diagram of a system implementing an embodiment of
   the present invention;
              Figure 5 shows a first screen layout used in embodiments of the present
30 invention;
               Figure 6 shows a variation of the screen of figure 5 used in embodiments of the
   present invention;
35             Figure 7 is a block diagram of a system which embodies the present invention
   showing the recommendation engine in detail;
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                -6
   Figure 8 is a flow chart of a recommendation process; and
   Figure 9 is a flow chart of a process for building a similar games table.
 5 Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
             Referring to Figure 1 a typical gaming machine is illustrated of a type to which
   the present invention can be applied. The machine illustrated in figure 1 is of a type
   that allows credit input by insertion of coins or bills but the invention can also be
   applied to machines that only allow credit input by transfer of credit from a central
10 cashier or from another gaming machine. In Figure 1, reference numeral 10 generally
   designates a gaming machine, including a game or games to be played by a player of
   the machine. The machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display means in the
   form of a video display unit 14 on which a game 16 is played. The video display unit 14
   may be implemented as a cathode ray screen device, a liquid crystal display, a plasma
15 screen, or the like. The game 16 as illustrated in Figure 1 is a spinning reel game
   which simulates the rotation of a number of spinning reels 18, however many other
   styles of game are also possible.
            A mid-trim 20 of the machine 10 optionally houses a keypad 22 for enabling a
20 player to play the game 16. The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24
   including a coin input chute 96 and a bill collector 97. As illustrated in Figure 2, some
   gaming machines use a touch screen for player input, in which case the keypad 22
   would not be required on the mid-trim in those machines. Instead the keys of the
   keypad 22 of the Figure 1 machine would be represented as a graphic image 29 on the
25 screen 16 and touch sensors 38 (refer to Figure 3) located adjacent the screen surface
   would detect touching of the screen to record player selections. In all other respects
   the machines of Figures 1 and 2 are essentially functionally identical.
            The machine 10 of Figures 1 and 2 includes a top box 26 on which artwork 28 is
30 carried. The artwork 28 includes paytables, details of bonus awards, etc. The artwork
   28 in the top box 26 may optionally be displayed on a video display such as a CRT of
   LCD panel.
            A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the
35 machine 10.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                 -7
             In machines employing the present invention the machine may also be
   connected via a computer network to other gaming machines and a system controller
   in which case player profiles may be saved on the system controller and credits can be
   applied to and cleared from the machine via the network. The credits can either be
 5 established at a cashiers station and transferred to the machine or alternatively a
   player might already have credits in another machine in the network and which they
   may wish to transfer to a new machine that they wish to play.
            To facilitate the establishment of player profiles, the use of player profiles to
10 enhance player enjoyment and to enable the secure transfer of cash to a machine,
   each machine is provided with a card reader 98 and the player is issued with a player
   tracking card 27 either when entering the premises or when establishing credit in the
   system. This tracking card 27 is inserted into the card reader 98 of a machine by the
   player after the player has established a credit on the system and has had the credit
15 transferred to the desired machine. Alternatively the card may be a membership card
   permanently in the possession of the player and the player may establish a credit in an
   account associated with their membership record. By inserting the card 27 into the
   card reader 98 of the machine he or she intends to play, the player identifies him or
   herself to the machine and establishes that a credit held in the system belongs to
20 them. In the illustrated embodiment, the card reader 98 is not connected directly to the
   machine's controller 36 but to the system interface 51, which is connected to the
   network via interconnection 52 and to the machine controller 36 as seen in Figure 3.
               Referring to Figure 3 of the drawings, a control means or control circuit 32 is
25 illustrated. A program which implements the game and player interface is run on a
   processor 34 of the control circuit 32. The processor 34 forms part of a controller 36
   that drives the screen of the video display unit 14 and that receives input signals from
   player inputs such as the optional keypad 22 (see Figure 1) or the optional sensors 38
   associated with the pseudo-keypad 29 (see Figure 2). The sensors 38, if used, include
30 touch sensors mounted in the screen of the video display unit 14 and associated with
   the representation of pseudo-buttons of the keypad 29, displayed on the display 16,
   thereby replicating the buttons of the keypad 22. The controller 36 also receives input
   pulses from the mechanism 24 to determine whether or not a player has provided
   sufficient credit to commence playing. The credit input mechanism 24 may comprise
35 one or more of several credit input devices such as a coin input chute 96a bill collector
   97, and a card reader 98 or any suitable oilier type of validation device. In some
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                 -8
   embodiments of the present invention it is important that there be a player tracking
   input device, such as the card reader 24.3, that can be used to associate a particular
   player with a particular player profile and optionally a credit held in the system (either
   as data held in a machine or in the system controller or possibly in a further controller
 5 reserved for financial information). Note that player tracking does not require knowing
   the actual identity of the player but is only used to associate the player with a particular
   player profile and/or credit. This is achieved in the preferred embodiment by using a
   player tracking card 27, which is a simple magnetic stripe card encoded with a unique
   code, that may be issued to the player either when they enter the establishment or
10 when establishment or when they establish a credit in the system and is read by the
   card reader 24.3. However other methods of player identification can be employed in
   tracking systems such as pin numbers, scannable tags of various known types such as
   magnetic stripe cards, smart cards, etc, iris recognition, finger prints or other bio
   sensor systems.
15
             Finally, the controller 36 optionally drives a payout mechanism which, for
   example, may be ticket printer 41, or a coin hopper 40 for feeding coins to the coin tray
   30 to make a pay out to a player when the player wishes to redeem his or her credit.
   Again however, in embodiments of the present invention, a payout mechanism is not
20 essential as the player may remove the credit held in the machine by transferring it to
   another machine or to a cashier.
             Referring to figure 4, a system in which the present invention is implemented is
   illustrated. The system comprises a plurality of gaming machines 10 each connected to
25 a network 63 by its respective system interface 51 and network connection 52. The
   network connections 52 are preferably connected to the remainder of the network via a
   hub 53 although other networking architectures such as daisy chaining may also be
   employed. Controlling the network is a system controller 54 and a cashier's terminal 55
   is optionally connected, either to the system controller 54 directly, as illustrated in
30  Figure 4, or alternatively via the network hub 53. The Cashier may be replaced or
   supplemented by an electronic cashier or cash in/cash out terminal 59 comprising a
   controller 56 to which is connected a player touch screen 58 and a card reader 57. The
   electronic cashier uses EFT transactions to debit or credit a player's account at a
   financial institution to establish or refund a player's credit in the gaming system.
35
            While embodiments of the invention will be described by way of example in the
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                       -9
   context of the conventional gaming machine and gaming system described above, it
   will be       recognised          that the invention   is equally applicable to other gaming
   environments such as internet gaming where games are played on a personal
   computer (or, possibly a hand held device such as a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA)
 5 or Mobile Phone) connected to an internet gaming website, or a stand alone hand held
   device or any other suitable gaming environment.
             Referring to Figure 4, in the preferred implementation a network connects EGMs
   to a server. In the traditional manner the server tracks players by their use of a
10 magnetic player tracking or identity card and collects statistics about the games
   played.
               The lists of games available to the player may be very large, such that it is
   difficult for the player to page through large number of game selection screens to find
15 games that they like.
             The game play history for all players is analysed by a recommendation engine
   60, which given a particular players game playing history produces a               list of other
   recommended games that the player might enjoy playing based on the play history of
20 other players. The list of recommendations is used to determine the presentation of the
   next available games to the player.
             When the player wants to choose a new game to play the EGM ranks the
   unplayed games according to the recommendation and preferentially displays the most
25 highly recommended games to the player. For example, if the gaming machine has
   100 games available to play, and games are presented 10 at a time on 10 selection
   screens, then the first selection screen contains the 10 most highly recommended
   games. The next selection screen presents the 10 next most highly recommended
   games, etc, until the last screen has the least recommended games.
30
               Of course the player may not want to accept a list of recommendations and
   may rather select a game on other criteria such as game type or prize distribution.
   Referring        to Figure         5, in order to accommodate     the various differing   player
   requirements, the total list of games is preferably split into a number of categories
35 according to common player preferences and presented to the player in a selection
   window 16 as illustrated. Such categories may include games with high wins, games
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                  - 10
   with frequent wins, older (traditional) games, card games, slot games, and currently
   popular games. The same game may appear in more than one category. In the screen
   16, illustrated in Figure 5, games are grouped according to categories selected by
   touch screen "buttons" 201 to 210 and the game icons 211 to 216 displayed in the
 5 centre of the screen 16 represent the games belonging to the currently selected
   category or a subset of the games belonging to the selected category. One of the
   categories, represented by           the "Recommend" "button" 202, provides the set of
   recommended games, generated by the recommendation system as described herein.
10           Within each category the games may be further ordered, either with sub
   categories. If the selected games exceed the space available for display of their
   respective icons, multiple pages will be provided and the player may move through tile
   pages using page buttons 217 and 218.
15             Referring to Figure 6, alternatively the list of game icons 311 to 316 displayed
   for selection by the player are generated according to a set of filters. Each game is
   assigned one or more tags indicating certain attributes (corresponding to categories) of
   the game, and the tag is used by the filter to select the game (or not) for inclusion on
   the displayed games list. For example a game may be 'high win' and 'popular'. If the
20 player selects either (or both) 'high win' and 'popular' filters       then, by touching the
   corresponding filter "button" 301 to 310, this game will appear in the selection. If
   another filter, such as frequent win, is selected the game will not appear in the
   selection list as it does not have a frequent win tag. Preferably the filters are toggled on
   or off by selecting the respective filter "button" 301 to 310. Some filters may disable
25 other filters when selected, if the filters are mutually exclusive. The "high wins" and
   "frequent wins" filters are, for example, likely to be mutually exclusive as it is not
   possible to design a game with frequent high wins (within the usual meaning of these
   terms within the gaming industry) without returning to the player more money than they
   bet. Note that the player may simultaneously select multiple filters as illustrated by the
30 grey buttons in figure 6, in which case only games that are associated with all of the
   selected categories will be displayed. If the selected games exceed the space
   available for display of their respective icons, multiple pages will be provided and the
   player may move through the pages using page buttons 317 and 318.
35           In a further preferred embodiment, the number of categories displayed to the
   player is a subset of those available, and the categories displayed can be selected by
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                  - 11
   the player from the total set. Alternately the categories are dynamically selected by the
   gaming machine and/or system according to players playing history. Preferably also,
   some of the categories are selected using the recommendation technique described
   herein.
 5
            The categories of games and/or games in each category may be changed
   dynamically, either manually or according to pre-programmed criteria such as time of
   day or number gaming machines in play. The command to change the games may be
   initiated from within the gaming machine or remotely from network control system.
10
            When the "recommended" category is selected, the games selection player
   interface may only be partially influenced by the recommendations. For example, the
   player's favourite games may be presented as well as the top choices from the
   recommendation list. The casino may also wish to override some of the
15 recommendations to promote other games.
            As games have a limited lifespan the age of the game being played is recorded
   and used in making recommendations. Some players have preferences for games of
   different ages (eg some players prefer new games, some prefer older games).
20
   Numerous variations on this implementation are clearly possible:
              *   The recommendation engine may be provided by software running either
                  on one of the existing servers used for accounting, bonusing, etc, or on a
25 separate recommendation server.
              *   The recommendation engine may also be part of the gaming machine. This
   can be beneficial if the gaming machine is not networked, or if there is a need to
   offload processing from the system for cost or performance                    reasons. If the
30 recommendation engine is implemented on the gaming machine, then the gaming
   machine will contain a database of previously collected player statistics (either for that
   machine only or collected from other machines in the establishment) to enable
   recommendations to be generated.
35            *   Instead of player tracking with a magnetic stripe identity card, a Smartcard
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                   -12
                  may be used. Further, player history could be stored on this card,
                  providing easy transportation of the data to other casinos.
   Overview of Game Recommendation Function
 5          The gaming machines in installations employing embodiments of the present
   invention provide functionality that allows players to search for and select games to
   play from a library of possibly hundreds of games stored on the system or the
   individual gaming machine. While the player plays gaming machines on the system a
   tracking system records the games played and the frequency of playing each game.
10 The tracking system includes a data structure and associated code which keeps track
   of games that have been selected and played by a player for play and this information
   is then used to provide recommendations for future game selections of the current
   player and as a basis for recommendations to others.
15          The system also implements a variety of different auxiliary recommendation
   function for recommending games to players.
             One such function allows players to interactively rate individual games to create
   a personal game ratings profile, and applies collaborative filtering techniques to each
20 of these profiles to generate personal recommendations.
               he primary function of the recommendation engine is to recommend games to
   players currently playing on the system, but it could also be used in the context of a
   website to make game recommendations to a player before they attend a gaming
25 establishment or in the context of a recommendation terminal attached to the gaming
   network of an establishment to recommend games to a player already in attendance at
   the establishment but not currently playing. Such a terminal might also direct a player
   to a suitable vacant machine for playing a selected game. Briefly, given a unary listing
   of games that are "known" to be of interest to a player (e.g., a list of games previously
30 played, by the player), the Recommendation Engine generates a list of additional
   games ("recommendations") that are predicted to be of interest to the player. (As used
   herein, the term "interest" refers generally to a player's liking of or affinity for an game;
   the term "known" is used to distinguish games for which the player has implicitly or
   explicitly       indicated        some level of  interest from   games    predicted    by the
35 Recommendation Function to be of interest.)
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                 - 13
             A table is used to map games to lists of games having "similar affinity" for the
   player ("similar games lists"), without the player having to rate the games (although, as
   mentioned above, the use of ratings data is also envisaged). If a player is known to
   have shown interest in say, five games (such as five games the player recently
 5 played), the function may retrieve the similar games lists for these five games from the
   table, and appropriately combine these lists (as will be described below) to generate
   the recommendations.
            The mappings of games to similar games ("game-to-game mappings") may be
10 generated periodically, such as once per day (or more frequently), from data which
   reflects the collective interests of the community of players. More specifically, the
   game-to-game mappings may be generated by an off-line process which identifies
   correlations between known interests of players in particular games. For example, in
   the embodiment described in detail below, the mappings are generating by analysing
15 player playing histories to identify correlations between use of particular games (e.g.,
   games A and B are similar because a relatively large portion of the players that played
   game A also played game B). The game-to-game mappings could also reflect other
   types of similarities, including content-based similarities extracted by analysing game
   descriptions.
20
             An important aspect of this embodiment of the Recommendation Function is that
   the relatively computation-intensive task of correlating game interests can optionally be
   performed off-line, and the results of this task (game-to-game mappings) are stored in
   a mapping              structure  for subsequent   look-up.  This   enables   the    personal
25 recommendations to be generated rapidly and efficiently in real-time in response to a
   request by the player, while still producing a broad varying comparison and not
   requiring intensive processing.
             Optionally, the similar games lists read from the table are appropriately weighted
30 (prior to being combined) based on indicia of the player's affinity for or current interest
   in the corresponding games of known interest. For example, in one embodiment
   described below, if the game of known interest was previously rated by the player, the
   rating is used to weight the corresponding similar games list. Similarly, the similar
   games list for a game that was played 1000 times in the last hour may be weighted
35 more heavily than the similar games list for a game that was played only 100 times in
   the past hour.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                    -14
             Embodiments of the invention may also make use of information regarding
   games that the player has played in the current playing session as inputs to the
   Recommendation Function. For example, if the player currently has two games that
   they have played today, these two games can be treated as the games of known
 5 interest      for      purposes    of  generating    recommendations, in which   case  the
   recommendations may be generated and displayed automatically when the player
   views the game selection screen.
               Using games played in the current playing sessions as inputs, tends to produce
10 recommendations that are highly correlated to the current short-term interests of the
   player; even if these short term interests are not reflected by the player's long term
   gaming history. For example, if a regular player is currently playing with an occasional
   partner who has different game interests than the regular player; this method will have
   a tendency to identify other games that are well suited to the pair of players while they
15 are playing together.
               FIG. 7 illustrates the basic components of the gaming system site 100,
   including the components used to implement. the Recommendation Server 60. The
   arrows in FIG.               7 show the general flow of information that is used by the
20 Recommendation Function. As illustrated by FIG. 7, Recommendation Server 60
   processes requests received from gaming machines 34 over the network 63 and send
   recommendation lists in reply. The Recommendation Server 60 accesses a Games
   Database 62 to generate lists of popular games and recommendation lists.
25             The Gaming System 100 also includes a "player profiles" database 64 which
   stores account-specific information about players' playing games on the system 100.
   Because a group of individuals can share an account by playing as a group, a given
   "player" from the perspective of the Recommendation Engine 60 may include multiple
   actual players. As illustrated by FIG. 7, the data stored for each player may include one
30 or more of the following types of information (among other things) that can be used to
   generate recommendations in accordance with the invention: (a) the player's playing
   history, including dates of play, (b) the player's game ratings profile (if any), (c) the
   player's personal recent playing listings, and (d) a listing of games that were recently
   (e.g., within the last six months) selected and then exited again without being played,
35 or after having only been played a few times.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                               -  15
               The various processes 61, 66 of the recommendation server 60 may run, for
   example, on one or more Unix or NT based workstations or physical servers (not
   shown) of the Gaming System JOO. The similar games table 65 is preferably stored
   as a B-tree data structure to permit efficient look-up, and may be replicated
 5 across multiple machines (together with the associated code of the Recommendation
   Process (61) to accommodate heavy loads.
            The general form and content of the similar games table 65 will now be
   described with reference to FIG. 7. As this table can take on many alternative forms,
10 the details of the table are intended to illustrate, and not limit, the scope of the
   invention.
            As indicated above, the similar games table 65 maps a list of games ("reference
   games") 67 to lists of similar games 68 based at least upon the collective interests of
15 the community of players. The similar games table 65 may be generated periodically
   (e.g., once per day), or may be continuously updated by the table generation process
   66. If the table generating process 66 is run once per day, it will preferably be run off
   line. The table generation process 66 generates the table 65 from data that reflects the
   collective interests of the community of players. In the embodiment described in detail
20 herein, the similar games table is generated exclusively from the game playing
   histories of the community of players (as depicted in FIG. 7). In other embodiments,
   the table 65 may additionally or alternatively be generated from other indicia of player
   game interests, including indicia based on players' viewing (browsing) activities, game
   playing histories, and game rating profiles. For example, the table 65 could be built
25 exclusively from the long term and/or recent gam playing histories of players. The
   similar games table 65 could also reflect non-collaborative type game similarities,
   including content-based similarities derived by comparing game or descriptions or
   structural game elements.
30           Each entry in the similar games table 65 is preferably in the form of a mapping of
   a list of all available games ("reference games list") 67 to a corresponding list 68 of
   similar games ("similar games lists").
               Each similar games list 68 consists of the N (e.g., 5) games which, based on
35 correlations between playing of games, are deemed to be the most closely related to
   the respective game 67. Each game in the similar games list 68 is stored together with
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                     - 16
   a commonality index ("CI") value which indicates the relatedness of that game to the
   reference game 67, based on play frequency of the respective games. A relatively
   high commonality index for a pair of games Game J and Game K indicates that a
   relatively large percentage of players who played Game J also played Game K (and
 5 vice versa).
               A relatively low commonality index for Game J and Game K indicates that a
    relatively small percentage of the players who played Game J also played Game K
    (and vice versa).             As described below, the similar games lists are generated, for
10 each game available on the system, by selecting the N other games that have
   the highest commonality index values. Using this method, Game J may be included
    in Game K's similar games list even though Game K is not present in Game J's
   similar games list.
15            In the embodiment depicted by FIG. 7, the games are represented within the
   similar games table 65 using game IlDs, such as game catalogue numbers or other
   identifiers. Alternatively, the games could be represented within the table by title,
   where each title is the name by which the game is known to players.
20           The general sequence of steps that are performed by the recommendation
    process 52 to generate a set of personal game recommendations will now be
   described with reference to FIG. 8.
              The FIG. 8 process 70 is invoked in real-time in response to an online action of
25 the player. For example, the recommendations are generated and displayed in real
   time (based on the player's play history and/or game ratings profile) in response to
   selection by the player of a new game instructions selection button 201-210 (See
    FIGS 5 & 6). The recommendations are generated (based on the player's current
    and/or recent game playing history) in real-time when the player initiates a
30  recommendation button 202, and are displayed on the gaming machine display
   screen 16 and are displayed on the same screen as icons 211-216.
              Any of a variety of other methods can be used to initiate the recommendations
     generation process and to display the recommendations to the player. For example,
35   the recommendations can automatically be generated periodically and sent to the
     player as a message on the screen between games. Further, the personal
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                   - 17
    recommendations could be generated in advance of any request or action by the
    player, and cached until requested.
             As illustrated by FIG. 8, the first step (step 71) of the recommendations
 5 generation process involves identifying a set of games that are of known interest to the
   player. The "knowledge" of the player's interest can be based on explicit indications of
   interest (e.g., the player rated the game highly) or implicit indications of interest (e.g.,
   the player selected the game and played it at least 5 times).
10           In the embodiment depicted in FIG. 7, the games of known interest are selected
   from one or more of the following groups: (a) games in the player's long term playing
   history; (b) games in the player's short term playing history i.e., the games played in
   the current session and, (c) games rated by the player (optionally with a score that
   exceeds a certain threshold. In other embodiments, the games of known interest may
15 additionally or alternatively be selected based on the viewing activities of the player.
               For example, the recommendations process 52 could select games that were
   viewed by the player for an extended period of time and/or viewed more than once.
   Further, the player could be prompted to select games of interest from a list of popular
20 games.
             For each game of known interest, the recommendation function 61 retrieves the
   corresponding similar games list 68 from the similar games table 65 (step 72), if such a
   list exists. If no entries exist in the table 65 for any of the games of known interest, the
25 process 52 may be terminated; alternatively, the process could attempt to identify
   additional games of interest, such as by accessing other sources of interest
   information.
             In step 73, the similar games lists are filtered to remove unwanted games. The
30 games removed during the filtering process may include, for example, games that have
   already been played only a small number of times and then not played again by the
   player or games that have been rated lowly by the player. The filtering step could
   alternatively be performed at a different stage of the process, such as after the
   subsequent combining step.
35
            After the similar games lists 68 are filtered in step 73, the lists are appropriately
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                    - 18
   combined (step 74), such as by merging the lists. The similar games lists 68 are then
   preferably weighted 75 by multiplying the commonality index values of the list by a
   weighting value.               The commonality index values as weighted by any applicable
   weighting value are referred to herein as "scores".                In other embodiments, the
 5 recommendations may be generated without weighting the similar games lists 68. The
   resulting list is then sorted (step 76) in order of highest-to-lowest score. The result of
   step 76 is a list ("recommendations list") of games to be recommended to the player.
             In step 75, the similar games lists 68 are optionally weighted based on
10 information about the player's affinity for the corresponding games of known interest.
   For example, a similar games list 68 may be weighted heavily if the player gave the
   corresponding popular game a rating of "5"on a scale or 1-5, or if the player the game
   for a large number of plays. Weighting a similar games list 68 heavily has the effect of
   increasing the likelihood that the games                in that list we be included in the
15 recommendations that are ultimately presented to the player. In one implementation
   described below, the player is presumed to have a greater affinity for recently played
   games over earlier played games.
             In step 77, one or more additional games are optionally added to the
20 recommendations list. In one embodiment, the games added in step 77 are selected
   from the set of games (if any) in the player's viewing history. As an important benefit
   of this step, the recommendations include one or more games that the player
   previously considered playing but did not actually play. The games added in step 77
   may additionally or alternatively be selected using another recommendations method,
25 such as a content-based method.
             Finally, in step 78, a list of the top M (e.g., 6) games of the recommendations list
   are returned to the gaming machine where the request was generated. The gaming
   machine incorporates this list into one or more screens of recommendations that are
30 displayed to the player, with each recommended game being presented as displayed
   selection icon on the display.
            The table-generation process 66 is preferably executed periodically (e.g., once a
   day) to generate a similar games table 65 that reflects the most recent play history
35 data. The recommendation process 61 uses the most recently generated version of the
   table 65 to generate recommendations.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                     -19
             FIG. 9 illustrates the sequence of steps that are performed by the table
   generation process 66 to build the similar games table 65. The general form of
   temporary data structures that are generated during the process are shown at the right
   of the drawing. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, any of a variety of
 5 alternative methods could be used to generate the table 65.
            As depicted by FIG. 9, the process initially retrieves the gaming histories for all
   players (step 81). Each gaming history is in the general form of the player ID of a
   player together with a list of the game IlDs of the games played by that player and the
10 dates on which the player has played the games and the number of times the game
   was played on each occasion.
             In steps 82 and 84, the process generates two temporary tables 83 and 85. The
   first table 83 maps individual players to the games they played and includes dates and
15 times played. The second table 85 maps games to the players that played such games
   and again includes the total times played (within a relevant period of interest).
             In step 86, the process finds for each game in the system ("reference game")
   those other games played by a common player, and lists the players and games
20 against the "reference game" in a further temporary table 87. This may be
   accomplished, for example, by selecting from the game-to-players table 85 those
   games that were played by more than a threshold number (e.g., 10) of the players. For
   each <reference game, other game> pair/player combination, the number of plays of
   the game played least by the player is also listed.
25
               In step 88, the process generates the commonality indexes (CI) for each
   <reference game, other game> pair in the table 87. As indicated above, the Cl values
   are measures of the similarity between two games, with larger Cl values indicating
   greater degrees of similarity. The commonality indexes are preferably generated such
30 that,     for a        given      reference game,   the respective commonality  indexes  of
   the corresponding other games take into consideration both (a) the total number of
   plays of each game in the respective period, and (b) the number of times each player
   played the lease popular of each pair of games. A preferred method for generating the
   commonality index values is set forth in the equation below (Eqn 1).
35
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                     - 20
                                              EX for d1 players of games A & B
                     C1 (oameA,      CameB) -                                       (1)
                                                     Sqit (Yx Z)
             where, for each player who has played Game A and Game B in a given period,
   "X" is the number of plays of the least played game (A or B), "Y" is the total number of
 5 plays of Game A and "Z" is the total number of plays of Game B in the period.
             By way of example, foe three games, Game_G,                 GameJ and GameK where
   GameG has been played 40,000 times by 500 players, GameJ 90000 by 500
    players, and GameK 100,000 by 5,000 players. In addition, GameG and Game_J
10  have 50 players in common, and GameG and Game K have 60 players in common.
   X for games G and J is 2500 and X for games G and K is 960. Applying the equation
   above to the values shown in FIG. 4 produces the following results:
             CI(Game_G, Game J)=2500/sqrt(40000.times.90000))=0. 042
15           CI(Game_G, Game K)=960/sqrt(90000.times. I 00,000))=0.01 0
             Thus, even though Games G and K have more customers in common than
   Games G and J, Games G and J are treated as being more similar than Games G and
    K. This result desirably reflects the fact that for Game J players who played Game_G
20 the number of plays of both games is much greater than for Game K players who
    played Game G.
              Because this equation is symmetrical (i.e., Cl (Game_A, GameB);CI(GameB,
    Game A)), it is not necessary to separately calculate the Cl value for every location in
25  the table 89.
              Following step 88 of FIG. 9, the similar games table 65 can be complied (step
    91) such that each reference game in the reference game list 67 has a respective set
    of other games in the "other games" list 68 which includes all of the other games from
30  the table 89 and their associated Cl values Using the values in the example above,
    GameJ would be positioned closer to the top of the Game G's list than Game K,
    since 0.042 > 0.010.
              Optionally (not shown), the other games list is filtered by deleting all list entries
35 that have fewer than a predetermined number of (say 10) players in common.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                - 21
             A non-gaming machine terminal may also be used to allow the player to get
   recommendations for new games to play. This could be implemented at a casino or as
   an Internet website and may allow a player to input various likes (and dislikes) for
   games, then use the recommendation engine to recommend games.
 5
    Promotions and Advertising
              Casinos often run promotions, posting advertising literature to the players to
    entice them to return to the casino for further play. A marketing promotion may use the
    players.' previously collected play information and use the recommendation engine to
10  customise promotions to that player. For example the artwork of advertising material
    may be selected from games that have not yet been played, but are likely to appeal to
    the player. Alternately free credits may be provided for machines that the player has
    not yet played, but is likely to enjoy playing.
15  Attract Mode
              When a gaming machine is not being played after some time it enters an
     "attract" mode, where it demonstrates the game it runs. A multi-game machine is able
     to demonstrate any of its games, so it is beneficial to demonstrate a game more likely
     to appeal to a nearby potential player.
20
              There are cases when a potential player may be identified.
   1.         A potential player has inserted an identify card, but not yet selected a game or
   started playing.
25 2.         A player is playing the gaming machine next to the unplayed gaming machine.
   The player can easily watch the unplayed machine and may either find a new game to
   play, or play both at the same time (especially in the case of a couple of people
   playing together).
30           When at least some of the players in the casino have been identified (eg though
    play machines), their average preference is determined and used. Although not as
    accurate as targeting an individual player, this has the advantage of continuously and
    automatically adjusting the presentation of machines in the casino to optimum benefit.
35            It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
    and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                        - 22
   embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
   described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects
   as illustrative and not restrictive.
5
  9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                  - 23
   Claims:
    1.        A method of gaming on a gaming system comprising a gaming server,
   a game selector, a plurality of gaming machines, and a communications system
 5 connecting each of the plurality of gaming machines to the gaming server, the gaming
   machines each having a display, a player interface, and a game controller arranged to
   control images displayed on the respective display, the method comprising the steps
   of:
               tracking, on the gaming system, play of games played by a plurality of players
10 on the gaming machines;
               displaying, on the display, a selection of a plurality of games available on a
    respective gaming machine for the player to play;
               selecting, using the game selector, one of the plurality games, the selection
    being determined dependent at least in part on the player's past history of playing
15  games and a history of games played by other players; and
               initiating, using the game controller, play of the selected game at the
    respective gaming machine, the game having a game result which, if it is a
    winning result, will cause the game controller to award a prize to the player.
20 2.          The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the player's past history of games
   comprises games played on the current machine in a current playing session only.
   3.          The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the player's past history
   of games comprises games played on any machine in the system in a current playing
25 session and nay previous session.
   4.          The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the history of
   games played by other players comprises a history of play on that gaming machine
   and not other gaming machines.
30
   5.          The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the history of
   games played by other players comprises a history of play on any gaming machine in
   the system.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                - 24
   6.          The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the selection of
   games for display by the game selector and their order of representation is made by a
   recommendation engine.
 5 7.          The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the recommendation engine is
   located in the gaming machine.
   8.          The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the recommendation engine is
   located on a server connected to the communications system.
10
   9.          The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the recommendation engine collects
   player data on the playing habits of all distinguishable individuals who can be linked to
   a plurality of game plays.
15 10.         The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the player data is processed to
   determine the most popular games with particular individuals.
   11.         The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the player data is processed to
   determine the groups of games that are popular with particular individuals.
20
   12.         The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the recommendation engine
   processes the player data to determine at least one popular game for the player,
   maintains for each game in the system a list of other games that would be of similar
   enjoyment value to the player and uses the list to from the selection of games.
25
   13.        A method of gaming on a gaming machine connected to a gaming system
   wherein the gaming system comprises a gaming server, a game selector, a plurality of
   said gaming machines, and a communications system connecting each of the plurality
   of gaming machines to the gaming server, the gaming machine having a display, a
30 player interface and a game controller arranged to control images displayed on then
   display, the method comprising the steps of:
               displaying, on the display, a selection of a plurality of games available on a
    respective gaming machine for the player to play;
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                  - 25
               selecting, using the game selector, one of the plurality games, the selection
   being determined dependent at least in part on the player's past history of playing
   games and a history of games played by other players; and
 5             initiating, using the game controller, play of the selected game at the
   respective gaming machine, the game having a game result which, if it is a winning
    result, will cause the game controller to award a prize to the player.
    14.        The method of claim 13, wherein the player's past history of playing games
10 comprises a history of games played on any gaming machine in the system in the
   current session and at least one previous session.
    15.        The gaming machine of claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the history of games
    played on any machine in the system.
15
    16.        The gaming machine of any one of claims 13 to 15, wherein the selection of
   games for display and their order of representation is made by a recommendation
   engine located on a server connected to the communications system.
20  17.        The gaming machine of any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein for each game in
   the system, the player's past history of playing games and a history of games played
    by other players results in a list of other games that would be of similar enjoyment
   value to the player
25 18.        A method of gaming on a gaming machine comprising a display, player
   interface, and game controller arranged to control images displayed on the display, the
   method comprising the steps of:
               tracking, on the gaming machine, play of games played on the gaming
30 machine;
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                   - 26
               selecting, using the game selector, one of a plurality games, the selection being
   determined dependent at least in part on the player's past history of playing games and
   a history of games played by other players; and
 5             initiating, using the game controller, play of the selected game at the gaming
   machine, the game having a game result which, if it is a winning result, will cause the
   game controller to award a prize to the player.
   19.         The method of any one of claims 13 or 18, wherein the player's past history of
10 games comprises games played on the gaming machine in a current playing session
   only.
   20.         The method of claim 13, 14, 18 or 19, wherein the history of games played by
   others comprises a history of play on that gaming machine only.
15
   21.         The method of claim 13, 14, 15, 18, 19 or 20, wherein the selection of games
   for display is made by a recommendation engine and the recommendation engine is
   located in the gamine machine.
20 22.         The method of any one of claims 16 or 21, wherein the recommendation engine
   collects player data on the playing habits of all distinguishable individuals who can be
   linked to a plurality of game or plays.
   23.         The method of claim 22, wherein the player data is processed to determine the
25 most popular games with particular individuals.
   24.         The method of any of claims 22 or 23, wherein the player data is processed to
   determine the groups of games that are popular with particular individuals.
30 25.         The method of claim 23 or claim 24, wherein the each game on the machine,
   the processed data results in a list of other games that would be of similar enjoyment
   value to the player and the list is used in forming the selection of games.
   26.         The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of games available on the gaming
35 machine comprise games stored on the system and accessible by the plurality of
   gaming machine.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

                                                - 27
   27.         The method of claim 1, wherein the player's past history of playing games and
   the history of games played by other players comprises a rank allocated to a game by
   the player and by the other players respectively.
 5 28.         The method of claim 1, wherein the selection of games is determined
   dependent on age information relating to each of the plurality of games.
   29.         The method of claim 6, wherein the selection of games is displayed according
   to a rank of each game in the selection, the rank of each game being determined by
10 the selection engine dependent on at least one of the player's past history of playing
   games and a history of games played by other players.
   30.        A method of gaming substantially as herein described.
   9702781_1 (GHMatters) P88328.AU.4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
