                                    ABSTRACT
One embodiment for the valve is a spring hydrant comprising of a valve body (1) with
a circular inlet and outlet, two centralising guides positioned at the outlet and a
polymeric-coated surface (12), a plug (3) comprised of a dome with a shaft, a yoke (4)
comprised of a cover plate with a polymericcoated surface (11) connected to the valve
body (1) by fastening means of two bolts (6), two washers (13) for the bolts, two nuts
(8) and two washers for the nuts (9) with a circular orifice, a seal (5) for the orifice
and a seal (10) to prevent flow between the yoke (4) and the body (1).

         66I
    101
             3
Figure 1

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 2 pages of Description only

Spring Hydrant Assembly Removable for Swabbing
Authors:
John Meerabux
Russell Mccabe
Hygrade Water Australia Pty Ltd
Hynds Pipe Systems
Revision 0
Dated 6/04/18
Description
This innovation relates to valves where a ball, cone or dome is used to plug an orifice on the outlet,
and more particularly to Spring Hydrants which are used for access for swabbing a pipeline.
Some Spring Hydrants have internal components which may be removed so that the pipeline may be
accessed for maintenance, known as swabbing. One problem with these commonly known swabbing
spring hydrants is that when the internal components are removed, there is an opportunity to drop
components into the pipe losing them.
Another problem is that the removal and re-assembly of the components may be difficult as it is
performed through a narrow opening at the top of the valve box which is under the ground surface.
This innovation provides a permanently assembled plug, spring and shaft guide. The shape of these
combined components prevents them from falling into the pipeline connected to the spring hydrant
inlet and reduces the time to remove these components as they are removed as a single assembly.
The permanent assembly of components is achieved by forming the shaft base end of plug so that
the spring and shaft guide are captive.
Another problem with existing spring hydrants that the bolts which fix the yoke to the body are
installed with bolt head oriented downwards, so that the nut is tightened from above, which allows
for the bolts to fall from their positions while installing the yoke.
This innovation further provides a ledge below the bolts which prevents the bolts from falling.
Another problem with existing spring hydrants is the bolt heads are placed between ribs to ensure
they do not rotate while the nuts are tightened, however, the sharp edge of the bolt may damage
the coating the of hydrant body during this process of installation as there is no washer provided
due to lack of space for a commonly available circular washer.
Another problem with existing spring hydrants is the plug may be misaligned due to use of incorrect
stand pipe, where the contact surface at the bottom of the rod from the stand-pipe which pushes on
the plug to open the valve, may cause radial misalignment of the plug resulting in leaks when the
plug returns to closed position. This innovation provides centralising guides at the outlet that radially
align the plug when it is returned to the closed position so that the orifice seal is evenly compressed
between the plug and the yoke.

This innovation further provides washers, shaped to fit the walls beside each bolt head. This
prevents the coating from being damaged during installation and removal of the bolt.
Preferred embodiments
The present innovation is related to valves where a ball, cone or dome is used to plug an orifice, and
where the valve is used as an access point for pipeline maintenance.
The attached drawings are:
Figure 1 - Cross-Sectional Front View of Valve Assembly with plug and shaft guide not sectioned
Figure 2 - Tope view of Valve Assembly
Figure 3 - Cross-Sectional Side View of Valve Assembly
Figure 4 - Side View of Valve
Figure 5 - Isometric View of Bolt with Washer
One embodiment for the valve is a spring hydrant comprising of a valve body (1) with a circular inlet
and outlet, two centralising guides positioned at the outlet and a polymeric-coated surface (12), a
plug (3) comprised of a dome with a shaft, a yoke (4) comprised of a cover plate with a polymeric
coated surface (11) connected to the valve body (1) by fastening means of two bolts (6), two
washers (13) for the bolts, two nuts (8) and two washers for the nuts (9) with a circular orifice, a seal
(5) for the orifice and a seal (10) to prevent flow between the yoke (4) and the body (1). The bolt
heads are supported by a ledge (A) provided by the valve body so that when the nut is removed, the
bolts will not fall. The seal (5) is composed of elastomeric material and is mounted between the
valve body (1) and the yoke (4), so that when the plug (3) is pressed against the seal, the seal
prevents the passage of fluid through the orifice in the cover plate.
The plug is pressed by a spring (7) so that when valve is opened by pushing on the plug the spring is
compressed. The spring (7) and plug (3) are mounted on a shaft guide (2) and are held captive by
means of an enlarged end on the shaft of the plug by forming a cap (14). The shaft guide has two
feet which are mounted on seats (B) moulded inside the valve body (1).

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 1 page of Claims only

Claims
    1. A valve comprising of: a valve body with inlet and outlet located substantially opposite one
       another; a permanent assembled plug, bias means and shaft guide; the plug having a shape
       of a dome, a spheroid or a cone oriented towards the outlet of the valve with a shaft
       oriented towards the inlet; the shaft guide providing radial alignment for the plug; the bias
       means comprising of a spring; a yoke comprising of a cover plate with an orifice, the yoke
       covering the outlet opening in the body connected to the body by fastening means so that if
       the yoke is removed the permanent assembly of the plug, spring and shaft guide may be
       removed together through an opening in the body and may not fit through the inlet
       together; and at least one seal for closing the valve so that when the bias means causes the
       plug to be pressed against the seal in the location of the orifice of the cover plate, the seal
       and plug prevent the passage of fluid through the orifice, and so that when the plug is
       pushed away from the seal and inlet by means of a rod the valve is in an open position
       where the fluid flows through the orifice.
    2. A valve according to Claim 1, with one or more seats formed from the body of the valve
       which controls the radial and tangential movement of the shaft guide which fits into the
       seat.
    3. A valve according to Claim 2 with a valve body having a minimum of two radially inward
       oriented centralising guides providing radial alignment for the plug near to the inlet.
    4. A valve according to Claim 1, with at least one ledge which is in a position below the head of
       the bolt so that the ledge prevents the bolt from falling when the nut is removed during
       removal or installation of the valve yoke.
    5. A valve according to Claim 4, where the surface of the body is coated, and where washers
       are installed with bolt heads; the washer having a bent shape to fit between the ribs of the
       valve and the bolt head, preventing the coating of the valve body being damaged by the bolt
       head when the bolt is tensioned.

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              - There is 4 pages of Drawings only

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1
           B

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                    Figure 3
                         Figure 1
              Figure 2
                                         C
                                        2
                                    3
              Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5

