The invention comprises a series of audio-digital neuroacoustic
techniques and processes to produce a synergistic integration of targeted
brainwave generation, neuro-auditory stimulation and bilateral brain
stimulation.
The invention aims to assist the generation of a range of
psychophysiological, psychotherapeutic and neurophysiological effects,
benefits and processes resulting from this synergy that cannot be
otherwise obtained from discrete existing neuroacoustic modalities,
techniques and processes.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

[0001] Variable Rhythmic Bilateral Stimulation and Brainwave
Synchronization (VRBSBS) comprises a series of audio-digital
neuroacoustic techniques and processes to produce a synergistic
integration of targeted brainwave generation, neuro-auditory stimulation
and bilateral brain stimulation.
[0002] The process aims to assist the generation of a range of
psychophysiological, psychotherapeutic and neurophysiological effects,
benefits and processes resulting from this synergy.
[0003] Selected sound stimuli ranging from 20-20k Hz are converted into
binaural, isochronic and monaural pulsed brainwave synchronization
formats at specific brainwave frequencies and incorporating selected
combinations of sine, square and triangle waveforms. These pulsed
brainwave synchronization audio stimuli are then individually embedded
in a 0.1 Hz carrier wave.
[0004] The individual carriers are then selectively combined via the use
of selected frequency coupling and/or multiple 'nested' frequencies and
grouped according to their dominant/sub-dominant brainwave frequencies,
synchronization format(s) and waveforms.
[0005] They are then modulated so as to produce varying, complex,
complementary rhythmic patterns via variations in amplitude, accent,
tone (pitch), duration and other forms of modulation.
[0006] These rhythmic carrier patterns are then delivered bilaterally as
discrete and non-discrete left-right/right-left alternating auditory stimuli
and/or stereo modulated pulses.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

 1. VRBSBS aims to assist delivery of a range of synergistic
psychophysiological, psychotherapeutic and neurophysiological effects,
benefits and processes resulting in therapeutic outcomes not otherwise
available through conventional existing neuroacoustic modalities
including (but not limited to) auditory bilateral brain stimulation, clinical
brainwave synchronization, music therapy and other modalities involving
the therapeutic use of sound.
2. Different VRBSBS protocols may be selected and used accordingly
for assistance with stress, anxiety, insomnia (as well as sleep management
and sleep quality), PTSD and depression, as well as improved
cardiovascular health, cognitive response and general wellbeing.
This previous claims may be achieved via combinations of the following:
    3. Improved heart rate variability (HRV)
    4. Enhanced positive cognition and emotional processing
    5. Rapid psychophysiological relaxation and/or sleep induction
    6. Improved hemispheric balance and interconnectivity
    7. Targeted brainwave frequency stimulation

