5469B-AU-D1
                                          ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a wound care arrangement comprising a covering unit that can be fixed
on the skin surrounding a wound and that serves for producing a closed wound space
comprising the wound, and a suction connection via which a vacuum can be produced in the
wound space, wherein the covering unit is permeable to water vapor at least in sections.

WO 2013/131638               PCTIEP2013/000636
                    1/134
                CJV
                              C.4J
               C~j        CD

5469B-AU-D1
          WOUND CARE ARRANGEMENT AND COVERING UNIT THEREFOR
         The invention relates to a wound care arrangement having a covering unit that is
attachable to the skin surrounding a wound and used for producing an enclosed wound space
comprising the wound and a suction connection, across which a negative pressure can be
generated in the wound space, as well as a covering unit for such a wound care arrangement.
         Such wound care arrangements are particularly used within the scope of the so-called
vacuum therapy. It has been found that, in particular, the healing of chronic wounds can be
promoted by applying negative pressure to these wounds. For this purpose, it has furthermore
been proven to be advantageous if the wound is covered or filled by an open-cell foam or gauze
as filler material, for generating an enclosed wound space comprising the wound and, as the case
may be, the filler material, is covered, and on the side of the covering unit, facing away from the
wound or the filler material, a suction connection is installed, across which the wound space can
be connected to a suction device designed for generating a negative pressure. In other
arrangements, a flange of the suction connection is covered by the covering unit or taken up in a
pocket surrounding an opening of the cover. The suction connection may, for instance, be
equipped with a tube connectable, on the one hand, to a connecting device of the suction
connection designed for example in the form of a tube stub and, on the other hand, to a suction
device. The covering unit may, for instance, be embodied as a film-like material that is
hermetically applied to the skin area adjacent to the wound.
         Wound care arrangements which are usable within the scope of vacuum therapy are, for
instance, described in EP 0620 720 B 1. The disclosure content of this document is hereby
incorporated into the specification herein by express reference with respect to the details of the
foaming means and the suction device usable within the scope of the vacuum therapy.
         DE 10 2009 019 646 Al describes a contact layer for improving the exudate management
to be inserted between the filler material and the wound base and forms a drainage chamber
between the filler material and the wound base. The disclosure content of this document is
expressly incorporated into the specification herein with respect to the details of the contact layer
                                                  1

5469B-AU-D1
or wound cover forming the drainage chamber.
         Suction connections usable within the scope of vacuum therapy and connectable, via a
tube, to a suction device, are, for instance, described in WO 03/073970 Al, in 2008/014358 A2
and in WO 2009/124548 Al. A suction connection, called suction head, having projections used
for flow control in the area of the boundary area of the suction connection facing the wound is
described in EP 1 018 967 B 1. Furthermore, a suction connection having a contact surface to be
applied to the filler material, in the form of a disc-like shell, is specified in EP 1 088 569 BI. In
the case of a suction connection described in WO 2010/008167 A2, on the boundary area facing
the filler material, channels delimited by ridges are formed that are intended for moving the
wound exudate in the direction of an aspiration opening.
         WO 2010/011148 Al describes a wound care arrangement which can be used within the
scope of vacuum therapy and has an impermeable tube which can be pulled over an extremity of
the human body as well as a perforated body to be arranged between the wound and the tube.
Using the perforated body, between the impermeable tube and the wound base, a space is created
in which, via a suction connection that can be hermetically applied to the impermeable tube, a
negative pressure can be generated. EP 1 162 932 B 1 describes a wound care arrangement
having an envelope of a plastic material and a fluid absorbing material contained in the envelope.
The wound care arrangement described in this document is intended for the protection of
wounds. Because it is lacking a tube connection, it is not suitable for use in vacuum therapy. In
previously unpublished European patent application having the filing number 11001737.3, a
wound care arrangement according to the Preamble of Claim 1 is described. The disclosure
content of this application is incorporated by express reference into the specification herein as far
as the characteristics of the suction connection are concerned. When using conventional wound
care arrangements, in many cases excessive drying out and sometimes also wound maceration
are observed during vacuum therapy.
         In view of these problems in the prior art, the object of the invention is based on
providing a wound care arrangement, by means of which, using vacuum therapy, the healing of
wounds can be reliably promoted.
                                                    2

5469B-AU-D1
         According to the invention, this objective is achieved by an enhancement of the prior art
wound care arrangements, being essentially characterized in that the covering unit is water vapor
permeable, at least in sections.
         Preferred embodiments of the invention are based on the consideration that the
requirements to be established as a principle for a wound cover for vacuum therapy, according to
which it is necessary to create a hermetic and watertight wound space which is additionally
intended to also be germ-proof, biocompatible and eudermic, is not unduly affected if, accepting
impairment of the seal, the covering unit is designed permeable to water vapor. The water vapor
permeability allows, on the one hand, excessive drying out of the wound as a result of moisture
being transported from the environment into the wound space, on the other hand, however, also
allows maceration of the wound by removal of excessive moisture by the cover. By using a water
vapor permeable covering unit, it is possible to establish a healing promoting environment in the
wound area or wound space. In addition, as a result of the water vapor permeability of the wound
cover, any potential impairment of the skin surrounding the wound to which the covering unit is
applied, is also reduced.
         The desired adjustment of the environment in the wound space can be implemented in a
particularly reliable manner, if the water vapor permeability of the covering unit, at least in
sections, is 300 g/m 2 /24 h or more, particularly 500 g/m 2/24 h, particularly preferred 750 g/m 2 /24
h.
         In order to avoid excessive drying out of the wound, the water vapor permeability of the
covering unit is expediently less than 10,000 g/m 2 /24 h, particularly less than 5,000 g/m 2 /24 h,
particularly preferred 3,000 g/m 2 /24 h or less. The water vapor permeability data refer to
measurements according to DIN EN ISO 13726-2.
         If the wound is in the area of a joint, it will also be necessary to assure that the covering
unit is sufficiently deformable. This can be assured if the covering unit is provided with a
resilient cover film having a thickness of 0.5 pm to 200 pim, in particular I to 100 pim. In the
                                                     3

5469B-AU-D1
interest of wound observation without removal of its wound care arrangement, it has proven to
be advantageous if a transparent cover film is used. In a particularly preferred embodiment of the
invention, the covering unit comprises a polyurethane polymer, particularly an aromatic
polyurethane polymer.
        As already explained above related to prior art wound care arrangements, it has proven to
be advantageous if a filler material designed for filling the wound between the wound base and
the covering unit is provided, preferably, on the suction connection side facing the filler material,
a drainage layer for introducing the exudate to be aspirated from the filler material in at least one
aspiration orifice of the suction connection being provided. If such a suction connection is
provided, neither channel forming projections are required on the suction connection boundary
area facing the filler material nor any expansion of the suction surface in the form of a disc-like
shell. Rather, it is sufficient if the boundary area of the aspiration connection facing the filler
material is designed flanged and plane and is penetrated by the suction opening, because the
introduction of the wound exudate from the filler material is not caused by any special quality of
the connection, but by the drainage layer arranged between the connection and the filler material.
If the suction connection contact surface to be applied to the drainage layer is designed plane, i.e.
without any projections, whether in the form of ridges delimiting channels or in the form of
annular projections, as with the disc-like shells according to EP 1 088 569 BI, the impression of
protruding structures into the drainage layer is prevented and, as a result, reliable functioning of
the drainage layer is assured.
        At this point, supplementally, it is also noteworthy that the use of water vapor permeable
covering units can not only be used for creating a desired environment in the wound space, but
also for minimizing stress on the skin surrounding the wound, because damage to the skin, as
observed with impermeable covering units, can be ruled out.
        The covering unit of a wound care arrangement according to preferred embodiments of
the invention is intended to be attachable to the skin surrounding the wound. For this purpose,
the covering unit per se may be equipped with an adhesive coating. The application of the
covering unit according to the invention is, however, simplified if the covering unit, in the form
                                                    4

5469B-AU-D1
of an uncoated, as the case may be, tubular cover film, is associated with a separate adhesive
film, in particular an adhering polyurethane film, by means of which, after application to the
wound, the wound covering can be attached to the skin surrounding the wound. The adhesive
film may be provided in the form of a film ribbon. Within the scope of the invention, in
particular, the Applicant's adhesive film offered and sold under the trade name Suprasorb F can
be used as adhesive film. Related thereto, it is also noteworthy that the water vapor permeability
of the covering unit is substantially affected by an adhesive coating. It may be reduced to less
than one third of the uncoated covering unit.
        The wound care arrangement according to preferred embodiments of the invention is
particularly advantageous and suitable for the treatment of wounds on extremities, such as foot,
ankle, lower leg, arm, hand. For this purpose, the covering unit may have a water vapor
permeable film tube, into which this extremity can be introduced. The tubular covering unit is
pulled over the extremity and, with respect to the wound, is positioned in such a way that the
wound is covered and sealed by the covering unit. Subsequently, the covering unit can be
attached to the skin adjacent to the wound using the adhesive film. For this purpose, the adhesive
film is pulled off a reel and wound on one end of the tube in such a way that, on the one hand, it
adheres to the tube and, on the other hand, to the skin.
        The application of the covering unit can be simplified if one axial end of the film tube is
closed, particularly hermetically, to form a stocking-like arrangement. This can be done by
welding (ultrasonic, heat, RF) or by gluing (for example using a polyurethane adhesive, hot melt
adhesives and/or adhesive tape). In that case, the covering unit need only be sealed on one side
by an adhesive film bandage.
        In the interest of simple application of the covering unit, expediently, it has a sliding
friction coefficient in the range between 0.7 and 1.2, measured according to ASTM 1894-08. In
this respect, sufficient stability of the covering unit can be achieved if the static friction
coefficient is between 0.8 and 1.5, particularly preferred between 1 and 1.25, measured
according to ASTM 1894-08. In this respect, furthermore, it has been found to be expedient if
the elongation at rupture of the covering unit is more than 100 %.
                                                    5

5469B-AU-D1
        The application of the covering unit to the extremity bearing the wound can be further
simplified if, after application to the wound, the often only very thin covering unit is provided
with a support arrangement that is detachable from the wound, in particular a support film. The
support film with which the covering unit may be provided, as the case may be, may be produced
of transparent polyester or of a multilayer material (e.g. polyester core, bilaterally polyethylene
coated) and be attached to the film-like covering unit by a lamination process. After introduction
of the extremity affected by the wound into the covering unit and before sealing by adhesive film
bandages, the support film must be detached, in order to assure a successful therapy process.
        The suction connection of a wound care arrangement according to preferred
embodiments of the invention has an aspiration orifice which faces the wound space during use
and, preferably designed as a tube stub, a connecting device for establishing a connection
between the aspiration orifice and an aspiration tube, the tube stub being arranged on the side of
the suction connection facing away from the wound space. In this arrangement, the aspiration
orifice may penetrate a flanged contact area of the suction connection, the contact area having a
fastening area that preferably surrounds the aspiration orifice and preferably provided with an
adhesive means, by means of which the suction connection can be glued to a boundary area of
the covering unit facing away from the wound space. Alternatively the contact area may also, at
least partially, be covered by the covering unit.
        The film tube of a wound care arrangement according to preferred embodiments of the
invention may have a prepared perforation for establishing a connection between the aspiration
tube to be connected to the tube stub and the wound space. However, this complicates the
application of the covering unit in a proper position in the area of the wound. For this reason,
within the scope of the invention, it is particularly preferred if the film tube is completely closed
in the circumferential direction and has only at least one axial opening, through which the
extremity can be introduced into the tube, the perforation in the film tube associated with the
aspiration orifice not being produced until after application to the wound, (and) for this purpose,
the film tube can, for example, be cut open and in use, the perforation expediently surrounded by
the fastening area of the suction connection.
                                                    6

5469B-AU-D1
         Hereinafter, suction connections usable particularly advantageously within the scope of
preferred embodiments of the invention are explained in detail.
         In accordance with a particularly simple application of wound care arrangements
according to preferred embodiments of the invention, it has proven to be expedient if the
drainage layer to be provided, as the case may be, is attached to the contact surface, in particular
glued, to the contact surface, welded, clamped and/or sewn to the contact surface. The overall
arrangement, consisting of suction connection and drainage layer, can then be positioned as a
whole at the desired location on the filler material or the covering unit.
         As explained above related to the covering unit designed according to preferred
embodiments of the invention, it has been found that during the vacuum therapy, air introduction
into the wound area, continuously taking place simultaneous with the generation of negative
pressure, further improves the healing process. A wound care arrangement according to a
particularly preferred embodiment of the invention, therefore, has a suction connection which
has, in addition to an aspiration orifice used for suctioning off the exudate, an aeration orifice
arranged in particular in the flanged contact area of the suction connection and used for aeration
of the wound. Continuous introduction of air into the wound area, made possible by the aeration
orifice, causes a controlled and continuous pressure drop during connection of a suction device
to the aspiration orifice. As a result, in particular associated with the use of a water vapor
permeable covering unit, the removal of the exudate can be further improved. The pump used for
suctioning off the exudate then generates a greater through-flow and an improved suction effect.
It is activated more frequently and suctions off more.
         For avoiding contamination of the wound, the aeration orifice is expediently associated
with an antibacterial filter which may be arranged in the aeration opening or cover the aeration
orifice. The filter is expediently hydrophobic and for obtaining the desired filtering action, has a
pore size of 0.001 pim, in particular 0.005 gim, preferably 0.02 gim, particularly preferred 0.1 gm
to 5 gim. With a pore size of less than 0.001 gim, the desired aeration is impaired. With a pore
size of more than 5 gim, it is almost impossible to attain the antibacterial effect. The filter
                                                     7

5469B-AU-D1
material may, in particular, contain polytetrafluoroethylene. The choice of the filter pore size
also affects the air through-flow in the wound area, pore size reduction causing a reduction of the
introduced air.
         As an addition or an alternative to the aeration orifice, the wound care arrangement may
also include, facing the aspiration orifice, a multilumen tube which may, in particular, comprise
three lumens, only one of which is used for the suctioning of the exudate, another one for the
controlled air supply and a third one for measuring the pressure directly at the wound. By using
the multilumen tube, the suction action can be improved without causing the suction connection
to need any structural modifications. The suction effect, is, however, even further improved by
using an additional aeration orifice. Further enhancement is achievable if the tube stub used as
connecting device has a lumen number corresponding to the multilumen tube.
         In the interest of optimal wound care without removing a wound care arrangement
according to preferred embodiments of the invention, it has been proven to be expedient if, in
addition to the aspiration orifice, the suction connection additionally has, designed for supplying
a wound care product and preferably perforating the contact area, a feed port which has,
associated to it, in a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention, on the side facing away
from the contact area, an additional connecting device, such as perhaps an additional tube stub,
for establishing a connection between the feed port and a feed tube. Via the feel port, a rinse, as
the case may be including medications, disinfectants and similar, may for example be introduced
into the wound area. Like the aspiration orifice, the feed port may also be covered by the
drainage layer.It is, however, particularly preferred if this opening is not covered by the drainage
layer, in order to improve the diffusion of the rinse into the wound area.
         For further enhancement of the exudate management, the wound care arrangement
according to the invention may have a contact layer causing wound side drainage, arranged
between the wound base and the filler material.
         Within the scope of preferred embodiments of the invention, it has been found to be
particularly advantageous if the drainage layer and/or the contact layer, in accordance with the
                                                   8

5469B-AU-D1
wound covers according to DE 10 2009 019 646 Al, has two ribbon-like elements running
approximately parallel to each other, between which a drainage chamber is formed, the depth of
which in a downward direction extending approximately perpendicular to the ribbon-like
elements, assures a capillary effect being exerted on the exudates taken up into the drainage
chamber. For this purpose, the depth of the drainage chamber may be 5 mm or less and 0.5 mm
or more. In this arrangement, each of the ribbon-like elements expediently has an opening
allowing passage of body fluid into the drainage chamber, at least one opening being embodied
by a channel that extends, originating from one of the ribbon-like elements, in the direction of
the inner boundary area of the other ribbon-like element situated opposite and ending in the
drainage chamber, its channel wall being designed in one piece with the ribbon-like element, in
particular by perforation of the ribbon-like element.
         In the interest of a particularly pronounced capillary action, it has proven to be
advantageous if the cross-sectional area of the channel in a plane extending perpendicular to the
downward direction, starting at the ribbon-like element, in the direction of the other boundary
area situated opposite, is reduced, in particular for obtaining a capillary action promoting the
entry of body fluid into the drainage chamber. In this arrangement, at least one ribbon-like
element may comprise a plurality of openings, preferably arranged grid-like, the distance
between adjacent openings being 15 mm or less, preferably 5 mm or less, particularly 3 mm or
less, the mouths of the openings which are arranged in a ribbon-like element being arranged in a
projection along the downward direction between the mouths of the openings arranged in the
other ribbon-like element arranged in a longitudinal projection, at least one channel extending in
the downward direction across 50 % or more of the total depth of the drainage chamber.
         The channel wall of the channels forming the opening, in an intersecting plane extending
parallel to the downward direction, is designed arched, at least in sections, and continuously
turns into the boundary area of the ribbon-like element. Additional characteristics of contact
and/or drainage layers usable according to preferred embodiments of the invention are provided
in DE 10 2009 019 646 Al, the disclosure content of which is hereby incorporated into the
specification herein by express reference.
                                                    9

5469B-AU-D1
        If the drainage layer only partially covers the contact surface of the suction connection,
preferably covering at least the suction opening and the filter, and a fastening area surrounding
the drainage layer is provided on the contact area of the suction connection, the suction
connection with this fastening area can be glued to the covering unit. For this purpose, the
fastening area of the suction connection can be provided with a suitable adhesive. Alternatively,
instead of an adhesive, double-sided adhesive tape can be used. In this arrangement, the adhesive
(for example acrylate, silicone, polyurethane) can be applied partially (e.g. in rings), in porous
form or over the entire surface. The adhesive tape may also be applied partially (e.g. in rings) or
over the entire surface. The double-sided adhesive tape may additionally be coated using the
same adhesive on both sides (e.g. acrylate, silicone, polyurethane), or the two sides may be
coated using two different adhesives (especially having silicone adhesive on the top side in
contact with contact surface 12 and acrylic adhesive on the bottom.) Both adhesive and adhesive
tape may be provided with a detachable protective layer.
        If the drainage layer completely covers the contact area of the suction connection, the
covering unit, for example designed film-like, may be glued to a fastening area of the suction
connection facing away from the contact surface and surrounding the connecting device of the
suction connection which is designed, for instance, in the form of a tube stub.
        As in the case of prior art wound care arrangements for use in vacuum therapy, the filler
material of wound care arrangements according to preferred embodiments of the invention may
include open-cell foam or gauze.
        As evident from the preceding explanation of wound care arrangements according to
preferred embodiments of the invention, a covering unit for use in a wound care arrangement is
essentially characterized in that it has a water vapor permeability of preferably 300 g/m 2 /24 h or
more, being able to be embodied as polyurethane film, in particular as a film tube having
dimensions adjusted to the dimensions of human extremities. The polyurethane film of a
covering unit according to the invention is preferably waterproof, biocompatible, and has a
thickness between 0.5 pm and 200 pim, in particular between 1 and 100 pim. The water vapor
permeability is expediently less than 2000 g/m 2 /24 h, especially less than 1500 g/m 2 /24 h. The
                                                  10

5469B-AU-D1
elongation at rupture of a covering unit according to the invention can be more than 100 %, the
static friction coefficient being between 0.8 and 1.5 and the sliding friction coefficient
expediently between 0.7 and 1.2. A wound care arrangement according to preferred
embodiments of the invention can be used as follows:
         After applying a conventional negative pressure therapy bandage or after applying or
inserting a filler material on or in the wound, a wound located on an extremity is inserted into the
tubular cover film in such a way that the film covers the entire wound area and the tubular cover
film projects over the edges of the wound. Taking into account its flexibility, the film is
expediently dimensioned in such a way that it is seated tight and gap-free at the wound edges.
The length of the tubular film can also be supplied in the form of a continuous tube and
fabricated on site by cutting. The film thus covered by the filler material and the cover film is
connected by its two axial ends, sealing it to the skin surrounding the wound, using customary
commercial adhesive film bandages, for example under the trade name Suprasorb F from
Lohmann & Rauscher GmbH. For this purpose, the film bandages are applied in such a way that
they adhere to the cover film on the one hand and to the skin on the other hand. By using water
vapor permeable covering units within the scope of preferred embodiments of the invention,
complete sealing of the wound area by adhesive film bandages is avoided. This promotes wound
healing. The cover film can be applied on a support film before and during positioning with
respect to the wound. The support film must be detached after introduction of the extremity
affected by the wound and before sealing by adhesive film bandages, in order to assure a
successful therapy process. If the film tube used as covering unit tube is closed at one of its axial
ends in the case of pre-formation of a truncated structure, for example by welding or by gluing,
only one axial end of the film tube will be connected to the skin surrounding the wound, sealing
it.
         Hereinafter, the invention is explained with reference to the drawing, to which express
reference is made with respect to all details essential to the invention and not explicitly
highlighted in the specification. Shown in the drawing:
       Fig. 1    shows a suction connection of a wound care arrangement according to the
                                                  11

5469B-AU-D1
              invention according to a first embodiment,
      Fig. 2  shows a suction connection of a wound care arrangement according to the
              invention according to a second embodiment,
      Fig. 3  shows a suction connection of a wound care arrangement according to the
              invention according to a third embodiment,
      Fig. 4  shows a wound care arrangement embodied using the suction connection
              according to Fig. 3,
      Fig. 5  shows a suction connection of a wound care arrangement according to the
              invention according to a fourth embodiment,
      Fig. 6  shows a wound care arrangement having a suction connection according to Figure
              5,
      Fig. 7  shows a suction connection of a wound care arrangement according to the
              invention according to a fifth embodiment,
      Fig. 8  shows a wound care arrangement having a suction connection according to Fig. 7,
              and
      Fig. 9  shows a suction connection of a wound care arrangement according to the
              invention according to a sixth embodiment.
      Fig. 10 shows embodiments of covering units according to the invention for wound care
              arrangements according to the invention, and
      Fig. 11 shows exemplary embodiments of wound care arrangements according to the
                                               12

5469B-AU-D1
                 invention.
         Fig. 1a) shows a view of a suction connection 10 of a wound care arrangement according
to preferred embodiments of the invention from the bottom, Fig. lb) a view of suction
connection 10 according to Fig. 1 a) the top, and Fig. 1c) a sectional view of a suction connection
10 according to the preferred embodiment.
         The suction connection 10 shown in Fig. 1 has a flanged contact area 11 with a circular
disk-shaped plane contact surface 12 without any projections. Contact surface 12 is perforated by
an aspiration orifice 14. In this arrangement, the likewise circular suction connection 14 is
arranged in the center of contact surface 12. Aspiration orifice 14 ends in a connecting device 20,
which is designed like a tube stub and causes a deflection by 900 of the exudate flow that is
aligned perpendicular to contact surface 12, so that, after deflection, the flow is aligned
approximately parallel to contact surface 12. Tube stub 20 has, at its end that faces away from
aspiration orifice 14, a connecting area 22 with an expanded inside diameter, into which a
suction tube 30 can be inserted airtight. The deflection of the aspiration flow by means of tube
stub 20 causes alignment of aspiration tube 30 in a direction running parallel to contact surface
12. This allows low-interference application of suction connection 10 and aspiration tube 30
connected thereto to the body of the patient.
         In the embodiment shown in Fig. 1 c), aspiration tube 30 is dimensioned in such a way
that its inner boundary area is aligned with an inside surface area of tube stub 20 adjacent to
connection area 22 of tube stub 20, in order to minimize thereby the flow resistance for the
wound exudate.
         In the embodiment according to Fig. 2a), a central area of contact surface 12, comprising
aspiration opening 14, is covered by a drainage layer 40 designed for the introduction of wound
exudate into aspiration opening 14. Drainage layer 40 is glued to contact surface 12 and
annularly surrounded by a fastening area 16 of contact surface 12.
         In the embodiment according to Fig. 2b), contact surface 12 is completely covered by
                                                  13

5469B-AU-D1
drainage layer 40. On the boundary area of suction connection 10 facing away from contact
surface 12, surrounding tube stub 20, a fastening area 16 is provided, which, just like fastening
area 16, can be provided with an adhesive layer, which can be covered by a detachable protective
layer in a wound care arrangement according to the invention, before using suction connection
10.
         The suction connection according to Fig. 3 essentially differs from the suction connection
according to Figs. 1 and 2 in that, in addition to an aspiration orifice 14, contact area 11 also has
an aeration orifice 80, by means of which the wound can be aerated in a controlled manner, in
order to improve in this way the flow conditions in the wound area in the interest of improving
exudate removal. Aeration orifice 80 has a greater diameter than aspiration opening 14. The edge
surrounding contact area 11 may have a shoulder which, according to Figs. 4 and 5, can be used
as support surface for an antibacterial filter 82. This increases the flow resistance in the area of
aeration orifice 80, which can, however, can be recompensed by adjusting the diameter of
aeration orifice 80.
         Within the scope of preferred embodiments of the invention, the flow resistance of filter
82 can be utilized to control the air flow. In doing so, the flow resistance is increased by reducing
the filter pore size. This control enhances the generation of negative pressure with simultaneous
aeration. If too large an aeration orifice 80 is selected, the negative pressure cannot be generated
without using a filter. Aeration orifice 80 may also be arranged above the water vapor permeable
cover film 60 (in a plan view). It is essential for the wound to be supplied with air. For this
purpose, it may be expedient to provide a hole somewhat offset in cover film 60, so that the air
can freely flow to aeration orifice 80.
         In the embodiment shown in the drawing, the antibacterial filter 82 is made of
polytetrafluoroethylene and has a pore size in the range of 0.001 pim, especially 0.005 pim,
preferably 0.02 pim, particularly preferred 0.1 pm to 5 pim. In the wound care arrangement
according to Figs. 6a and 6b, it is covered by drainage layer 40. As explained with reference to
Fig. 4, the suction connection according to Fig. 3 as well as the suction connection according to
Fig. 1 can be attached in such a way that it is glued to a cover film 60.
                                                    14

5469B-AU-D1
        The embodiment according to Fig. 5 essentially differs from the embodiment according
to Fig. 3 in that the aspiration tube is implemented as a three-lumen tube 32 and, as
schematically indicated in Fig. 6, the middle and largest lumen 34 is used for generating the
negative pressure in the wound area, a small lumen 36 can be used for aerating the wound, and
an additional smaller lumen 38 is intended for measuring the pressure in the wound area.
Connection area 22 also comprises lumens 24, 26 and 28 corresponding to the lumens 32, 34 and
36.
        The embodiment according to Figs. 5 and 6 additionally comprises, in addition to
aeration lumen 26, an aeration orifice 80, in order to allow further improving the exudate
management.
        The embodiment according to Fig. 7 essentially differs from the embodiment according
to Fig. 3 in that, in addition to the aspiration opening 14 and the aeration orifice 80, additionally
a feed port 100 into contact area 11 of suction connection 10 is provided, which is associated
with another tube stub 110 for connecting feed port 100 to another tube 130. Via tube 130, the
additional tube stub 110 and feed port 100, wound care agents, such as a rinse, as the case may
be, mixed with medications, disinfectants or the like, can be introduced into the wound area. The
embodiment according to Fig. 7 can be used even without using a separate aeration orifice 80
because feed port 100 can also be used for aeration. For the purpose of good exudate
management, it has, however, proven to be particularly expedient if, in addition to aspiration
opening 14, both an aeration orifice 80 and a feed port 100 are provided in contact area 11 of
suction connection 10.
        As evident from Fig. 8, the rinse can be introduced into the area of the wound via the
additional tube 130 and the additional tube stub 110 using an appropriate metering element 114.
For this purpose, it has proven to be particularly expedient if the feed port 100 is not covered by
drainage layer 40, in order to assure thereby the removal by aspiration of wound exudate without
being affected by the supplied rinse and in order to prevent the supplied rinse from being
immediately removed again by aspiration.
                                                   15

5469B-AU-D1
         The embodiment according to Fig. 9 differs from the embodiment explained with
reference to Fig. 7 in that a three-lumen tube 132 is used, the design and functioning of which are
comparable to the design according to Fig. 5. For this purpose, the design according to Fig. 9 has
a three-lumen tube for removal by aspiration of wound exudate, aeration of the wound area and
an aeration orifice 80 pressure measurement as well as a feed port 100. This allows assuring
optimal wound management.
         The embodiments explained with reference to Figs. 3 to 9 have, in contrast to the
embodiments explained with reference to Figs. 1 and 2, a contact area of a shape that differs
from circular, being approximately rhombic in shape. The corners of the rhombs are rounded.
The rhombic shape provides a longitudinal axis, which allows the arrangement of aspiration
orifice, aeration orifice and feed port in a line.
         The covering unit illustrated in Fig. 10a) is embodied as a film tube 200, which may take
on circular cylinder jacket shape. The two ends 210 and 212 of the film tube shown in Fig 10-a)
are designed open in such a way that the tube as a whole can be pulled over one extremity. The
covering unit according to the invention according to Fig. 1Ob) essentially differs from the
covering unit according to Fig. 10a) in that the upper end 210' of the hollow tube 200 is closed.
         In the embodiment according to Fig. 1Oc), the covering unit embodied as film tube is
spreadable as a truncated in the form of a cone jacket, i.e. tapered. In this arrangement, one end,
such as upper end 310, may be closed, while the other one, such as the lower end 312, may be
designed to be open. Particularly preferred, the end having the smaller cross-section will be
closed. In that case, the film tube can be slipped over a foot somewhat like a stocking or, as the
case may be, over a hand, like a glove.
         In Fig. 11. various exemplary embodiments of wound care arrangements according to
preferred embodiments of the invention are illustrated. In this case, Fig. 11 a) shows the
application in the area of the knee joint. It can be seen that the covering unit in analogy to the
covering unit shown in Figure 1Oc) or 1Oa) is designed tubular and open at both ends and is
                                                   16

5469B-AU-D1
attached to the surrounding skin by the ends opposite each other using adhesives means.
        In the exemplary embodiment according to Fig. 11 b), the wound care arrangement is
applied to an ankle. In this example, the cover unit is embodied like a closed film tube, which is
attached to the surrounding skin in the area of the user's calf.
        Finally, in the exemplary embodiment shown in Fig. 11 c), the wound care arrangement is
applied to the forearm of a patient. In this example, the covering unit is designed as a film tube
open at both ends, the film tube being designed tapered according to the illustration in Fig. 10c)
and attached to the surrounding skin by the two opposite edges.
        The invention shall not be limited to the embodiments explained with reference to the
drawing. In particular, the use of tubular cover film is intended, which may even, if appropriate,
be mounted to support film, the support film being detachable from the cover film after
application of the cover film to the wound. For this purpose, expediently, in the peripheral
direction, completely closed film tubes will be used, which only have, at least on one axial end,
an opening, the opening in the film tube required for drainage of the exudate via the suction
connection being formed after application of the film tube to the wound. For this purpose, the
film tube may for example be cut open at the appropriate location. Besides polyurethane film,
other skin-compatible and water vapor permeable film can be used. It is essential that the
covering unit delimits the enclosed wound space substantially airtight and waterproof, is germ
proof, has appropriate water vapor permeability, is biocompatible and eudermic as well as
cuttable and, if necessary, can be easily applied using additional support film.
The foregoing describes only some embodiments of the present invention and modifications,
obvious to those skilled in the wound treatment arts, can be made thereto without departing from
the scope of the present invention.
The term "comprising" (and its grammatical variations) as used herein is used in the inclusive
sense of "including" or "having" and not in the exclusive sense of "consisting only of'.
                                                  17

5469B-AU-D1
CLAIMS
    1.    Wound care arrangement having a covering unit that can be attached to the skin
    surrounding a wound and used for producing an enclosed wound space comprising the
    wound, and a suction connection across which a negative pressure can be generated in the
    wound space, characterized in that the covering unit is water vapor permeable, at least in
    sections.
    2.    Wound care arrangement according to Claim 1, characterized in the water vapor
    permeability of the covering unit is, at least in sections, more than 300 g/m 2 /24 h or more, in
    particular 500 g/m 2 /24 h or more, particularly preferred 750 g/m 2/24 h.
    3.    Wound care arrangement according to Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the water
    vapor permeability of the covering unit is less than 10,000 g/m 2 /24 h, in particular less than
    5,000 g/m 2/24 h, particularly preferred 3,000 g/m 2 /24 h or less.
    4.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
    the covering unit comprises a preferably transparent cover film having a thickness of 0.5 pm
    to 200 pim, in particular 1 pm to 100 pim.
    5.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
    the elongation at rupture of the covering unit is 100 % or more.
    6.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
    the static friction coefficient of the covering unit is between 0.8 and 1.5 (ASTM 1894-08).
    7.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
    the static friction coefficient of the covering unit is between 0.7 und 1.2 (ASTM 1894-08).
    8.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
                                                   18

5469B-AU-D1
    the covering unit comprises a polyurethane polymer, in particular an aromatic polyurethane
    polymer.
    9.     Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized by a
    filler material for filling the wound space placed between the wound base and the covering
    unit, preferably, on the side of the suction connection facing the filler material, a drainage
    layer being provided for introduction of the exudate to be removed by aspiration from the
    filler material into at least one aspiration orifice of the suction connection.
    10.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
    the covering unit is associated with an adhering fastening means for the adhesive attachment
    of the covering unit to the skin surrounding the wound.
    11.    Wound care arrangement according to Claim 10, characterized in that the fastening
    means comprises a separate adhesive film, in particular a polyurethane film, by means of
    which the wound covering can be attached after application to the wound with respect to the
    skin surrounding the wound.
    12.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
    the covering unit comprises a film tube, into which a human extremity can be introduced.
    13.    Wound care arrangement according to Claim 12, characterized in that for forming a
    truncated arrangement, one axial end of the film tube is closed, in particular hermetically.
    14.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
    the covering unit is associated with a support arrangement, in particular supporting film,
    which is detachable from the wound after application to it.
    15.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
    the suction connection has an aspiration orifice facing the wound space during use and a
                                                    19

5469B-AU-D1
    connecting device preferably designed as a tube stub for producing a connection between the
    aspiration orifice and an aspiration tube.
    16.    Wound care arrangement according to Claim 15, characterized in that the aspiration
    orifice penetrates a flanged contact area of the suction connection and the contact area has,
    preferably surrounding the aspiration orifice and preferably equipped with an adhesive
    means, a fastening area, by means of which the suction connection can be glued to a
    boundary area of the covering unit facing away from the wound space.
    17.    Wound care arrangement according to one of the Claims 12 to 16, characterized in that
    the film tube is completely closed in the peripheral direction and preferably after application
    to the wound, is cut open, in order to obtain a perforation associated with the aspiration
    orifice, the perforation preferably being surrounded by the fastening area of the suction
    connection during use.
    18.    Covering unit for use in a wound care arrangement according one of the preceding
    claims, characterized by a water vapor permeable polyurethane film having water vapor
    permeability of preferably 3000 g/m 2 /24 h.
Dated this 2 4 th day of November 2017
                                        LOHMANN & RAUSCHER GmbH
                                        By
                                        FRASER OLD & SOHN
                                        Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                                  20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
