                                               ABSTRACT
A system and method enabling a planned evolution and obsolescence of multiuser wireless
spectrum comprising: one or multiple centralized processors (CPs) communicatively coupled to one
another; and one or multiple distributed nodes or wireless transceiver stations communicatively
coupled to the centralized processors over wireline or wireless connections, the plurality of
distributed nodes concurrently transmitting or receiving a plurality of non-interfering data links
within the same frequency channel to or from at least one of a plurality of wireless user devices over
a plurality of wireless connections, the CPs dynamically adjusting the configuration of the distributed
nodes in accordance with evolutionary changes to network architecture.

 SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR PLANNED EVOLUTION AND OBSOLESCENCE
                             OF MULTIUSER SPECTRUM
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application is a continuation-in-part of the following co-pending U.S.
Patent Applications:
[0002]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/917,257, filed November 1, 2010, entitled
"Systems And Methods To Coordinate Transmissions In Distributed Wireless
Systems Via User Clustering"
[0003]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,988, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"Interference Management, Handoff, Power Control And Link Adaptation In
Distributed-Input Distributed-Output (DIDO) Communication Systems"
[0004]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,976, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Adjusting DIDO Interference Cancellation Based On Signal
Strength Measurements"
[0005]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,974, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Managing Inter-Cluster Handoff Of Clients Which Traverse
Multiple DIDO Clusters"
[0006]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,989, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Managing Handoff Of A Client Between Different
Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output (DIDO) Networks Based On Detected Velocity
Of The Client"
[0007]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,958, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Power Control And Antenna Grouping In A Distributed
Input-Distributed-Output (DIDO) Network"
[0008]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,975, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Link adaptation In DIDO Multicarrier Systems"
[0009]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,938, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For DIDO Precoding Interpolation In Multicarrier Systems"
[0010]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, filed December 3, 2009, entitled
"System and Method For Distributed Antenna Wireless Communications"
[0011]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/143,503, filed June 20, 2008 entitled
"System and Method For Distributed Input-Distributed Output Wireless
Communications";
                                             1

[0012]       U.S. Application Serial No. 11/894,394, filed August 20, 2007 entitled,
"System and Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless
Communications";
[0013]       U.S. Application Serial No. 11/894,362, filed August 20, 2007 entitled,
"System and method for Distributed Input-Distributed Wireless Communications";
[0014]       U.S. Application Serial No. 11/894,540, filed August 20, 2007 entitled
"System and Method For Distributed Input-Distributed Output Wireless
Communications"
[0015]       U.S. Application Serial No. 11/256,478, filed October 21, 2005 entitled
"System and Method For Spatial-Multiplexed Tropospheric Scatter
Communications";
[0016]       U.S. Application Serial No. 10/817,731, filed April 2, 2004 entitled
"System and Method For Enhancing Near Vertical Incidence Skywave ("NVIS")
Communication Using Space-Time Coding.
BACKGROUND
[0017]       Prior art multi-user wireless systems may include only a single base
station or several base stations.
[0018]      A single WiFi base station (e.g., utilizing 2.4 GHz 802.11 b, g or n
protocols) attached to a broadband wired Internet connection in an area where there
are no other WiFi access points (e.g. a WiFi access point attached to DSL within a
rural home) is an example of a relatively simple multi-user wireless system that is a
single base station that is shared by one or more users that are within its
transmission range. If a user is in the same room as the wireless access point, the
user will typically experience a high-speed link with few transmission disruptions
(e.g. there may be packet loss from 2.4GHz interferers, like microwave ovens, but
not from spectrum sharing with other WiFi devices), If a user is a medium distance
away or with a few obstructions in the path between the user and WiFi access point,
the user will likely experience a medium-speed link. If a user is approaching the edge
of the range of the WiFi access point, the user will likely experience a low-speed link,
and may be subject to periodic drop-outs if changes to the channel result in the
signal SNR dropping below usable levels. And, finally, if the user is beyond the range
of the WiFi base station, the user will have no link at all.
[0019]      When multiple users access the WiFi base station simultaneously, then
the available data throughput is shared among them. Different users will typically
                                              2

place different throughput demands on a WiFi base station at a given time, but at
times when the aggregate throughput demands exceed the available throughput
from the WiFi base station to the users, then some or all users will receive less data
throughput than they are seeking. In an extreme situation where a WiFi access point
is shared among a very large number of users, throughput to each user can slow
down to a crawl, and worse, data throughput to each user may arrive in short bursts
separated by long periods of no data throughput at all, during which time other users
are served. This "choppy" data delivery may impair certain applications, like media
streaming.
[0020]       Adding additional WiFi base stations in situations with a large number of
users will only help up to a point. Within the 2.4GHz ISM band in the U.S., there are
3 non-interfering channels that can be used for WiFi, and if 3 WiFi base stations in
the same coverage area are configured to each use a different non-interfering
channel, then the aggregate throughput of the coverage area among multiple users
will be increased up to a factor of 3. But, beyond that, adding more WiFi base
stations in the same coverage area will not increase aggregate throughput, since
they will start sharing the same available spectrum among them, effectually utilizing
time-division multiplexed access (TDMA) by "taking turns" using the spectrum. This
situation is often seen in coverage areas with high population density, such as within
multi-dwelling units. For example, a user in a large apartment building with a WiFi
adapter may well experience very poor throughput due to dozens of other interfering
WiFi networks (e.g. in other apartments) serving other users that are in the same
coverage area, even if the user's access point is in the same room as the client
device accessing the base station. Although the link quality is likely good in that
situation, the user would be receiving interference from neighbor WiFi adapters
operating in the same frequency band, reducing the effective throughput to the user.
[0021]       Current multiuser wireless systems, including both unlicensed spectrum,
such as WiFi, and licensed spectrum, suffer from several limitations. These include
coverage area, downlink (DL) data rate and uplink (UL) data rate. Key goals of next
generation wireless systems, such as WiMAX and LTE, are to improve coverage
area and DL and UL data rate via multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) technology.
MIMO employs multiple antennas at transmit and receive sides of wireless links to
improve link quality (resulting in wider coverage) or data rate (by creating multiple
non-interfering spatial channels to every user). If enough data rate is available for
                                             3

every user (note, the terms "user" and "client" are used herein interchangeably),
however, it may be desirable to exploit channel spatial diversity to create non
interfering channels to multiple users (rather than single user), according to multiuser
MIMO (MU-MIMO) techniques. See, e.g., the following references:
[0022]       G. Caire and S. Shamai, "On the achievable throughput of a
multiantenna Gaussian broadcast channel," IEEE Trans. Info.Th., vol. 49, pp. 1691
1706, July 2003.
[0023]       P. Viswanath and D. Tse, "Sum capacity of the vector Gaussian
broadcast channel and uplink-downlink duality," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 49, pp.
1912-1921, Aug.2003.
[0024]       S. Vishwanath, N. Jindal, and A. Goldsmith, "Duality, achievable rates,
and sum-rate capacity of Gaussian MIMO broadcast channels," IEEE Trans. Info.
Th., vol. 49, pp. 2658-2668, Oct. 2003.
[0025]       W. Yu and J. Cioffi, "Sum capacity of Gaussian vector broadcast
channels," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 50, pp. 1875-1892, Sep. 2004.
[0026]       M. Costa, "Writing on dirty paper," IEEE Transactions on Information
Theory, vol. 29, pp. 439-441, May 1983.
[0027]       M. Bengtsson, "A pragmatic approach to multi-user spatial multiplexing,"
Proc. of Sensor Array and Multichannel Sign.Proc. Workshop, pp. 130-134, Aug.
2002.
[0028]       K.-K. Wong, R. D. Murch, and K. B. Letaief, "Performance enhancement
of multiuser MIMO wireless communication systems," IEEE Trans. Comm., vol. 50,
pp. 1960-1970, Dec. 2002.
[0029]       M. Sharif and B. Hassibi, "On the capacity of MIMO broadcast channel
with partial side information," IEEE Trans. Info.Th., vol. 51, pp. 506-522, Feb. 2005.
[0030]       For example, in MIMO 4x4 systems (i.e., four transmit and four receive
antennas), 10MHz bandwidth, 16-QAM modulation and forward error correction
(FEC) coding with rate 3/4 (yielding spectral efficiency of 3bps/Hz), the ideal peak
data rate achievable at the physical layer for every user is 4x3OMbps=1 20Mbps,
which is much higher than required to deliver high definition video content (which
may only require ~10Mbps). In MU-MIMO systems with four transmit antennas, four
users and single antenna per user, in ideal scenarios (i.e., independent identically
distributed, i.i.d., channels) downlink data rate may be shared across the four users
and channel spatial diversity may be exploited to create four parallel 30Mbps data
                                             4

links to the users.
Different MU-MIMO schemes have been proposed as part of the LTE standard as
described, for example, in 3GPP, "Multiple Input Multiple Output in UTRA", 3GPP TR
25.876 V7.0.0, Mar. 2007; 3GPP, "Base Physical channels and modulation", TS
36.211, V8.7.0, May 2009; and 3GPP, "Multiplexing and channel coding", TS 36.212,
V8.7.0, May 2009. However, these schemes can provide only up to 2X improvement
in DL data rate with four transmit antennas. Practical implementations of MU-MIMO
techniques in standard and proprietary cellular systems by companies like
ArrayComm (see, e.g., ArrayComm, "Field-proven results",
http://www.arraycomm.com/serve.php?paae=proof) have yielded up to a ~3X
increase (with four transmit antennas) in DL data rate via space division multiple
access (SDMA). A key limitation of MU-MIMO schemes in cellular networks is lack
of spatial diversity at the transmit side. Spatial diversity is a function of antenna
spacing and multipath angular spread in the wireless links. In cellular systems
employing MU-MIMO techniques, transmit antennas at a base station are typically
clustered together and placed only one or two wavelengths apart due to limited real
estate on antenna support structures (referred to herein as "towers," whether
physically tall or not) and due to limitations on where towers may be located.
Moreover, multipath angular spread is low since cell towers are typically placed high
up (10 meters or more) above obstacles to yield wider coverage.
[0031]       Other practical issues with cellular system deployment include excessive
cost and limited availability of locations for cellular antenna locations (e.g. due to
municipal restrictions on antenna placement, cost of real-estate, physical
obstructions, etc.) and the cost and/or availability of network connectivity to the
transmitters (referred to herein as "backhaul"). Further, cellular systems often have
difficulty reaching clients located deeply in buildings due to losses from walls,
ceilings, floors, furniture and other impediments.
[0032]       Indeed, the entire concept of a cellular structure for wide-area network
wireless presupposes a rather rigid placement of cellular towers, an alternation of
frequencies between adjacent cells, and frequently sectorization, so as to avoid
interference among transmitters (either base stations or users) that are using the
same frequency. As a result, a given sector of a given cell ends up being a shared
block of DL and UL spectrum among all of the users in the cell sector, which is then
shared among these users primarily in only the time domain. For example, cellular
                                              5

systems based on Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) and Code Division Multiple
Access (CDMA) both share spectrum among users in the time domain. By
overlaying such cellular systems with sectorization, perhaps a 2-3X spatial domain
benefit can be achieved. And, then by overlaying such cellular systems with a MU
MIMO system, such as those described previously, perhaps another 2-3X space
time domain benefit can be achieved. But, given that the cells and sectors of the
cellular system are typically in fixed locations, often dictated by where towers can be
placed, even such limited benefits are difficult to exploit if user density (or data rate
demands) at a given time does not match up well with tower/sector placement. A
cellular smart phone user often experiences the consequence of this today where
the user may be talking on the phone or downloading a web page without any
trouble at all, and then after driving (or even walking) to a new location will suddenly
see the voice quality drop or the web page slow to a crawl, or even lose the
connection entirely. But, on a different day, the user may have the exact opposite
occur in each location. What the user is probably experiencing, assuming the
environmental conditions are the same, is the fact that user density (or data rate
demands) is highly variable, but the available total spectrum (and thereby total data
rate, using prior art techniques) to be shared among users at a given location is
largely fixed.
[0033]       Further, prior art cellular systems rely upon using different frequencies in
different adjacent cells, typically 3 different frequencies. For a given amount of
spectrum, this reduces the available data rate by 3X.
[0034]      So, in summary, prior art cellular systems may lose perhaps 3X in
spectrum utilization due to cellularization, and may improve spectrum utilization by
perhaps 3X through sectorization and perhaps 3X more through MU-MIMO
techniques, resulting in a net 3*3/3 = 3X potential spectrum utilization. Then, that
bandwidth is typically divided up among users in the time domain, based upon what
sector of what cell the users fall into at a given time. There are even further
inefficiencies that result due to the fact that a given user's data rate demands are
typically independent of the user's location, but the available data rate varies
depending on the link quality between the user and the base station. For example, a
user further from a cellular base station will typically have less available data rate
than a user closer to a base station. Since the data rate is typically shared among all
of the users in a given cellular sector, the result of this is that all users are impacted
                                               6

by high data rate demands from distant users with poor link quality (e.g. on the edge
of a cell) since such users will still demand the same amount of data rate, yet they
will be consuming more of the shared spectrum to get it.
[0035]       Other proposed spectrum sharing systems, such as that used by WiFi
(e.g., 802.11 b, g, and n) and those proposed by the White Spaces Coalition, share
spectrum very inefficiently since simultaneous transmissions by base stations within
range of a user result in interference, and as such, the systems utilize collision
avoidance and sharing protocols. These spectrum sharing protocols are within the
time domain, and so, when there are a large number of interfering base stations and
users, no matter how efficient each base station itself is in spectrum utilization,
collectively the base stations are limited to time domain sharing of the spectrum
among each other. Other prior art spectrum sharing systems similarly rely upon
similar methods to mitigate interference among base stations (be they cellular base
stations with antennas on towers or small scale base stations, such as WiFi Access
Points (APs)). These methods include limiting transmission power from the base
station so as to limit the range of interference, beamforming (via synthetic or physical
means) to narrow the area of interference, time-domain multiplexing of spectrum
and/or MU-MIMO techniques with multiple clustered antennas on the user device,
the base station or both. And, in the case of advanced cellular networks in place or
planned today, frequently many of these techniques are used at once.
[0036]       But, what is apparent by the fact that even advanced cellular systems can
achieve only about a 3X increase in spectrum utilization compared to a single user
utilizing the spectrum is that all of these techniques have done little to increase the
aggregate data rate among shared users for a given area of coverage. In particular,
as a given coverage area scales in terms of users, it becomes increasingly difficult to
scale the available data rate within a given amount of spectrum to keep pace with
the growth of users. For example, with cellular systems, to increase the aggregate
data rate within a given area, typically the cells are subdivided into smaller cells
(often called nano-cells or femto-cells). Such small cells can become extremely
expensive given the limitations on where towers can be placed, and the requirement
that towers must be placed in a fairly structured pattern so as to provide coverage
with a minimum of "dead zones", yet avoid interference between nearby cells using
the same frequencies. Essentially, the coverage area must be mapped out, the
available locations for placing towers or base stations must be identified, and then
                                              7

given these constraints, the designers of the cellular system must make do with the
best they can. And, of course, if user data rate demands grow over time, then the
designers of the cellular system must yet again remap the coverage area, try to find
locations for towers or base stations, and once again work within the constraints of
the circumstances. And, very often, there simply is no good solution, resulting in
dead zones or inadequate aggregate data rate capacity in a coverage area. In other
words, the rigid physical placement requirements of a cellular system to avoid
interference among towers or base stations utilizing the same frequency results in
significant difficulties and constraints in cellular system design, and often is unable to
meet user data rate and coverage requirements.
[0037]       So-called prior art "cooperative" and "cognitive" radio systems seek to
increase the spectral utilization in a given area by using intelligent algorithms within
radios such that they can minimize interference among each other and/or such that
they can potentially "listen" for other spectrum use so as to wait until the channel is
clear. Such systems are proposed for use particularly in unlicensed spectrum in an
effort to increase the spectrum utilization of such spectrum.
[0038]       A mobile ad hoc network (MANET) (see http://en.wikipedia.orq/wiki/
Mobile ad hoc network) is an example of a cooperative self-configuring network
intended to provide peer-to-peer communications, and could be used to establish
communication among radios without cellular infrastructure, and with sufficiently low
power communications, can potentially mitigate interference among simultaneous
transmissions that are out of range of each other. A vast number of routing protocols
have been proposed and implemented for MANET systems (see
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List of ad-hoc routing protocols for a list of dozens of
routing protocols in a wide range of classes), but a common theme among them is
they are all techniques for routing (e.g. repeating) transmissions in such a way to
minimize transmitter interference within the available spectrum, towards the goal of
particular efficiency or reliability paradigms.
[0039]       All of the prior art multi-user wireless systems seek to improve spectrum
utilization within a given coverage area by utilizing techniques to allow for
simultaneous spectrum utilization among base stations and multiple users. Notably,
in all of these cases, the techniques utilized for simultaneous spectrum utilization
among base stations and multiple users achieve the simultaneous spectrum use by
multiple users by mitigating interference among the waveforms to the multiple users.
                                                8

For example, in the case of 3 base stations each using a different frequency to
transmit to one of 3 users, there interference is mitigated because the 3
transmissions are at 3 different frequencies. In the case of sectorization from a base
station to 3 different users, each 180 degrees apart relative to the base station,
interference is mitigated because the beamforming prevents the 3 transmissions
from overlapping at any user.
[0040]       When such techniques are augmented with MU-MIMO, and, for example,
each base station has 4 antennas, then this has the potential to increase downlink
throughput by a factor of 4, by creating four non-interfering spatial channels to the
users in given coverage area. But it is still the case that some technique must be
utilized to mitigate the interference among multiple simultaneous transmissions to
multiple users in different coverage areas.
[0041]       And, as previously discussed, such prior art techniques (e.g.
cellularization, sectorization) not only typically suffer from increasing the cost of the
multi-user wireless system and/or the flexibility of deployment, but they typically run
into physical or practical limitations of aggregate throughput in a given coverage
area. For example, in a cellular system, there may not be enough available locations
to install more base stations to create smaller cells. And, in an MU-MIMO system,
given the clustered antenna spacing at each base station location, the limited spatial
diversity results in asymptotically diminishing returns in throughput as more antennas
are added to the base station.
[0042]       And further, in the case of multi-user wireless systems where the user
location and density is unpredictable, it results in unpredictable (with frequently
abrupt changes) in throughput, which is inconvenient to the user and renders some
applications (e.g. the delivery of services requiring predictable throughput)
impractical or of low quality. Thus, prior art multi-user wireless systems still leave
much to be desired in terms of their ability to provide predictable and/or high-quality
services to users.
[0043]       Despite the extraordinary sophistication and complexity that has been
developed for prior art multi-user wireless systems over time, there exist common
themes: transmissions are distributed among different base stations (or ad hoc
transceivers) and are structured and/or controlled so as to avoid the RF waveform
transmissions from the different base stations and/or different ad hoc transceivers
from interfering with each other at the receiver of a given user.
                                              9

[0044]       Or, to put it another way, it is taken as a given that if a user happens to
receive transmissions from more than one base station or ad hoc transceiver at the
same time, the interference from the multiple simultaneous transmissions will result
in a reduction of the SNR and/or bandwidth of the signal to the user which, if severe
enough, will result in loss of all or some of the potential data (or analog information)
that would otherwise have been received by the user.
[0045]       Thus, in a multiuser wireless system, it is necessary to utilize one or more
spectrum sharing approaches or another to avoid or mitigate such interference to
users from multiple base stations or ad hoc transceivers transmitting at the same
frequency at the same time. There are a vast number of prior art approaches to
avoiding such interference, including controlling base stations' physical locations
(e.g. cellularization), limiting power output of base stations and/or ad hoc
transceivers (e.g. limiting transmit range), beamforming/sectorization, and time
domain multiplexing. In short, all of these spectrum sharing systems seek to address
the limitation of multiuser wireless systems that when multiple base stations and/or
ad hoc transceivers transmitting simultaneously at the same frequency are received
by the same user, the resulting interference reduces or destroys the data throughput
to the affected user. If a large percentage, or all, of the users in the multi-user
wireless system are subject to interference from multiple base stations and/or ad hoc
transceivers (e.g. in the event of the malfunction of a component of a multi-user
wireless system), then it can result in a situation where the aggregate throughput of
the multi-user wireless system is dramatically reduced, or even rendered non
functional..
[0046]       Prior art multi-user wireless systems add complexity and introduce
limitations to wireless networks and frequently result in a situation where a given
user's experience (e.g. available bandwidth, latency, predictability, reliability) is
impacted by the utilization of the spectrum by other users in the area. Given the
increasing demands for aggregate bandwidth within wireless spectrum shared by
multiple users, and the increasing growth of applications that can rely upon multi
user wireless network reliability, predictability and low latency for a given user, it is
apparent that prior art multi-user wireless technology suffers from many limitations.
Indeed, with the limited availability of spectrum suitable for particular types of
wireless communications (e.g. at wavelengths that are efficient in penetrating
building walls), it may be the case that prior art wireless techniques will be
                                               10

insufficient to meet the increasing demands for bandwidth that is reliable, predictable
and low-latency.
[0047]       Prior art related to the current invention describes beamforming systems
and methods for null-steering in multiuser scenarios. Beamforming was originally
conceived to maximize received signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) by dynamically adjusting
phase and/or amplitude of the signals (i.e., beamforming weights) fed to the
antennas of the array, thereby focusing energy toward the user's direction. In
multiuser scanarios, beamforming can be used to suppress interfering sources and
maximize signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR). For example, when
beamforming is used at the receiver of a wireless link, the weights are computed to
create nulls in the direction of the interfering sources. When beamforming is used at
the transmitter in multiuser downlink scenarios, the weights are calculated to pre
cancel inter-user interfence and maximize the SINR to every user. Alternative
techniques for multiuser systems, such as BD precoding, compute the precoding
weights to maximize throughput in the downlink broadcast channel. The co-pending
applications, which are incorporated herein by reference, describe the foregoing
techniques (see co-pending applications for specific citations).
[0048] Reference to any prior art in this specification does not constitute an
admission that such prior art forms part of the common general knowledge.
[0049] It is an object of the present invention to provide provided a system and
method that enables planned evolution and obsolescence of multiuser wireless
spectrum overcoming at least some of the problems of the prior art or to at least
provide the public with a useful choice.
[0050] According to a first aspect there is provided a multiple user (MU)-multiple
antenna system (MAS) comprised of:
        a plurality of user devices;
        a plurality of distributed wireless transceivers communicatively coupled with
the user devices via a plurality of wireless links;
        one or a plurality of centralized processors communicatively coupled with the
distributed wireless transceivers via a network;
        the centralized processors obtaining statistical or instantaneous channel
characterization data for the plurality of wireless links to compute precoding weights
via closed-loop or open-loop schemes and using the precoding weights to process a
                                              11

plurality of waveforms being transferred between the centralized processor and the
distributed wireless transceivers over the network;
        the waveforms coherently combining over the wireless links to create a shape
in space around each of the plurality of user devices, each shape carrying an
independent and simultaneous non-interfering data stream for the user device.
[0051] According to a further aspect there is provided a method implemented within a
multiple-user (MU) multiple antenna system (MAS) comprising:
        a plurality of user devices;
        a plurality of distributed wireless transceivers communicatively coupled with
the user devices via a plurality of wireless links;
        one or a plurality of centralized processors communicatively coupled with the
distributed wireless transceivers via a network;
        the centralized processors obtaining statistical or instantaneous channel
characterization data for the plurality of wireless links to compute precoding weights
via closed-loop or open-loop schemes and using the precoding weights to process a
plurality of waveforms being transferred between the centralized processor and the
distributed wireless transceivers over the network;
        the waveforms coherently combining over the wireless links to create a shape
in space around each of the plurality of user devices, each shape carrying an
independent and simultaneous non-interfering data stream for the user device.
        a plurality of distributed transceivers that employ joint precoding to coherently
combine waveforms to create a shape in space around each of the plurality of user
devices, each shape consisting of an independent and simultaneous non-interfering
wireless link for the user device.
[0052] According to a further aspect there is provided system that enables planned
evolution and obsolescence of multiuser wireless spectrum comprising:
        one or multiple centralized processors (CPs) communicatively coupled to one
another; and
        one or multiple distributed nodes or wireless transceiver stations
communicatively coupled to the centralized processors over wireline or wireless
connections, the plurality of distributed nodes concurrently transmitting or receiving a
plurality of non-interfering data links within the same frequency channel to or from at
least one of a plurality of wireless user devices over a plurality of wireless
                                              12

connections, the CPs dynamically adjusting the configuration of the distributed nodes
in accordance with evolutionary changes to network architecture
[0053] According to a further aspect there is provided method that enables planned
evolution and obsolescence of multiuser wireless spectrum comprising:
        communicatively coupling one or multiple centralized processors to one
another; and
        communicatively coupling one or multiple distributed nodes or wireless
transceiver stations to the centralized processors (CPs) over wireline or wireless
connections, the plurality of distributed nodes concurrently transmitting or receiving a
plurality of non-interfering data links within the same frequency channel to or from at
least one of a plurality of wireless user devices over a plurality of wireless
connections, the CPs dynamically adjusting the configuration of the distributed nodes
in accordance with evolutionary changes to network architecture.
[0054]       It is acknowledged that the terms "comprise", "comprises" and
"comprising" may, under varying jurisdictions, be attributed with either an exclusive
or an inclusive meaning. For the purpose of this specification, and unless otherwise
noted, these terms are intended to have an inclusive meaning - i.e. they will be taken
to mean an inclusion of the listed components that the use directly references, but
optionally also the inclusion of other non-specified components or elements.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0055]       A better understanding of the present invention can be obtained from the
following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings, in which:
[0056]       FIG. 1 illustrates a main DIDO cluster surrounded by neighboring DIDO
clusters in one embodiment of the invention.
[0057]       FIG. 2 illustrates frequency division multiple access (FDMA) techniques
employed in one embodiment of the invention.
[0058]       FIG. 3 illustrates time division multiple access (TDMA) techniques
employed in one embodiment of the invention.
[0059]       FIG. 4 illustrates different types of interfering zones addressed in one
embodiment of the invention.
[0060]       FIG. 5 illustrates a framework employed in one embodiment of the
invention.
[0061]       FIG. 6 illustrates a graph showing SER as a function of the SNR,
assuming SIR=1OdB for the target client in the interfering zone.
                                              13

[0062]       FIG. 7 illustrates a graph showing SER derived from two IDCI-precoding
techniques.
[0063]       FIG. 8 illustrates an exemplary scenario in which a target client moves
from a main DIDO cluster to an interfering cluster.
[0064]       FIG. 9 illustrates the signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR) as a
function of distance (D).
[0065]       FIG. 10 illustrates the symbol error rate (SER) performance of the three
scenarios for 4-QAM modulation in flat-fading narrowband channels.
[0066]       FIG. 11 illustrates a method for IDCl precoding according to one
embodiment of the invention.
[0067]       FIG. 12 illustrates the SINR variation in one embodiment as a function of
the client's distance from the center of main DIDO clusters.
[0068]       FIG. 13 illustrates one embodiment in which the SER is derived for 4
QAM modulation.
[0069]       FIG. 14 illustrates one embodiment of the invention in which a finite state
machine implements a handoff algorithm.
[0070]       FIG. 15 illustrates depicts one embodiment of a handoff strategy in the
presence of shadowing.
[0071]       FIG. 16 illustrates a hysteresis loop mechanism when switching between
any two states in Fig. 93.
[0072]       FIG. 17 illustrates one embodiment of a DIDO system with power control.
[0073]       FIG. 18 illustrates the SER versus SNR assuming four DIDO transmit
antennas and four clients in different scenarios.
[0074]       FIG. 19 illustrates MPE power density as a function of distance from the
source of RF radiation for different values of transmit power according to one
embodiment of the invention.
[0075]       FIGS. 20a-b illustrate different distributions of low-power and high-power
DIDO distributed antennas.
[0076]       FIGS. 21a-b illustrate two power distributions corresponding to the
configurations in Figs. 20a and 20b, respectively.
[0077]       FIG. 22a-b illustrate the rate distribution for the two scenarios shown in
Figs. 99a and 99b, respectively.
[0078]       FIG. 23 illustrates one embodiment of a DIDO system with power control.
                                              14

[0079]      FIG. 24 illustrates one embodiment of a method which iterates across all
antenna groups according to Round-Robin scheduling policy for transmitting data.
[0080]      FIG. 25 illustrates a comparison of the uncoded SER performance of
power control with antenna grouping against conventional eigenmode selection in
U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381.
[0081]      FIGS. 26a-c illustrate three scenarios in which BD precoding dynamically
adjusts the precoding weights to account for different power levels over the wireless
links between DIDO antennas and clients.
[0082]      FIG. 27 illustrates the amplitude of low frequency selective channels
(assuming l = 1) over delay domain or instantaneous PDP (upper plot) and
frequency domain (lower plot) for DIDO 2x2 systems
[0083]      FIG. 28 illustrates one embodiment of a channel matrix frequency
response for DIDO 2x2, with a single antenna per client.
[0084]      FIG. 29 illustrates one embodiment of a channel matrix frequency
response for DIDO 2x2, with a single antenna per client for channels characterized
by high frequency selectivity (e.g., with l = 0.1).
[0085]      FIG. 30 illustrates exemplary SER for different QAM schemes (i.e., 4
QAM, 16-QAM, 64-QAM).
[0086]      FIG. 31 illustrates one embodiment of a method for implementing link
adaptation (LA) techniques.
[0087]      FIG. 32 illustrates SER performance of one embodiment of the link
adaptation (LA) techniques.
[0088]      FIG. 33 illustrates the entries of the matrix in equation (28) as a function
of the OFDM tone index for DIDO 2x2 systems with       NFFT    64 and LO = 8.
[0089]      FIG. 34 illustrates the SER versus SNR for Lo = 8, M=Nt=2 transmit
antennas and a variable number of P.
[0090]      FIG. 35 illustrates the SER performance of one embodiment of an
interpolation method for different DIDO orders and LO = 16.
[0091]      FIG. 36 illustrates one embodiment of a system which employs super
clusters, DIDO-clusters and user-clusters.
[0092]      FIG. 37 illustrates a system with user clusters according to one
embodiment of the invention.
                                            15

[0093]       FIGS. 38a-b illustrate link quality metric thresholds employed in one
embodiment of the invention.
[0094]       FIGS. 39-41 illustrate examples of link-quality matrices for establishing
user clusters.
[0095]       FIG. 42 illustrates an embodiment in which a client moves across different
different DIDO clusters.
[0096]       FIGS. 43-46 illustrate relationships between the resolution of spherical
arrays and their area A in one embodiment of the invention.
[0097]       FIG. 47 illustrates the degrees of freedom of an exemplary MIMO system
in practical indoor and outdoor propagation scenarios.
[0098]       FIG. 48 illustrates the degrees of freedom in an exemplary DIDO system
as a function of the array diameter.
[0099]       FIG. 49 illustrates a plurality of centralized processors and distributed
nodes.
[00100]      FIG. 50 illustrates a configuration with both unlicensed nodes and
licensed nodes.
[00101]     FIG. 51 illustrates an embodiment where obsolete unlicensed nodes are
            covered with a cross.
[00102]     FIG. 52 illustrates one embodiment of a cloud wireless system where
different nodes communicate with different centralized processors.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00103]     One solution to overcome many of the above prior art limitations is an
embodiment of Distributed-Input Distributed-Output (DIDO) technology. DIDO
technology is described in the following patents and patent applications, all of which
are assigned the assignee of the present patent and are incorporated by reference.
These patents and applications are sometimes referred to collectively herein as the
"related patents and applications":
[00104]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/917,257, filed November 1, 2010, entitled
"Systems And Methods To Coordinate Transmissions In Distributed Wireless
Systems Via User Clustering"
[00105]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,988, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"Interference Management, Handoff, Power Control And Link Adaptation In
Distributed-Input Distributed-Output (DIDO) Communication Systems"
                                              16

[00106]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,976, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Adjusting DIDO Interference Cancellation Based On Signal
Strength Measurements"
[00107]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,974, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Managing Inter-Cluster Handoff Of Clients Which Traverse
Multiple DIDO Clusters"
[00108]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,989, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Managing Handoff Of A Client Between Different
Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output (DIDO) Networks Based On Detected Velocity
Of The Client"
[00109]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,958, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Power Control And Antenna Grouping In A Distributed
Input-Distributed-Output (DIDO) Network"
[00110]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,975, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For Link adaptation In DIDO Multicarrier Systems"
[00111]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,938, filed June 16, 2010, entitled
"System And Method For DIDO Precoding Interpolation In Multicarrier Systems"
[00112]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, filed December 2, 2009, entitled
"System and Method For Distributed Antenna Wireless Communications"
[00113]     U.S. Patent No. 7,599,420, filed August 20, 2007, issued Oct. 6, 2009,
entitled "System and Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless
Communication";
[00114]     U.S. Patent No. 7,633,994, filed August 20, 2007, issued Dec. 15, 2009,
entitled "System and Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless
Communication";
[00115]     U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381, filed August 20, 2007, issued Dec. 22, 2009,
entitled "System and Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless
Communication";
[00116]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/143,503, filed June 20, 2008 entitled,
"System and Method For Distributed Input-Distributed Output Wireless
Communications";
[00117]     U.S. Application Serial No. 11/256,478, filed October 21, 2005 entitled
"System and Method For Spatial-Multiplexed Tropospheric Scatter
Communications";
                                           17

[00118]      U.S. Patent No. 7,418,053, filed July 30, 2004, issued August 26, 2008,
entitled "System and Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless
Communication";
[00119]      U.S. Application Serial No. 10/817,731, filed April 2, 2004 entitled
"System and Method For Enhancing Near Vertical Incidence Skywave ("NVIS")
Communication Using Space-Time Coding.
[00120]      To reduce the size and complexity of the present patent application, the
disclosure of some of the related patents and applications is not explicitly set forth
below. Please see the related patents and applications for a full detailed description
of the disclosure.
[00121]      Note that section I below (Disclosure From Related Application Serial No.
12/802,988) utilizes its own set of endnotes which refer to prior art references and
prior applications assigned to the assignee of the present application. The endnote
citations are listed at the end of section I (just prior to the heading for Section II).
Citations in Section II uses may have numerical designations for its citations which
overlap with those used in Section I even through these numerical designations
identify different references (listed at the end of Section II). Thus, references
identified by a particular numerical designation may be identified within the section in
which the numerical designation is used.
       1.          Disclosure From Related Application Serial No. 12/802,988
1. Methods to Remove Inter-cluster Interference
[00122]      Described below are wireless radio frequency (RF) communication
systems and methods employing a plurality of distributed transmitting antennas to
create locations in space with zero RF energy. When M transmit antennas are
employed, it is possible to create up to (M-1) points of zero RF energy in predefined
locations. In one embodiment of the invention, the points of zero RF energy are
wireless devices and the transmit antennas are aware of the channel state
information (CSI) between the transmitters and the receivers. In one embodiment,
the CSI is computed at the receivers and fed back to the transmitters. In another
embodiment, the CSI is computed at the transmitter via training from the receivers,
assuming channel reciprocity is exploited. The transmitters may utilize the CSI to
determine the interfering signals to be simultaneously transmitted. In one
embodiment, block diagonalization (BD) precoding is employed at the transmit
antennas to generate points of zero RF energy.
                                             18

[00123]      The system and methods described herein differ from the conventional
receive/transmit beamforming techniques described above. In fact, receive
beamforming computes the weights to suppress interference at the receive side (via
null-steering), whereas some embodiments of the invention described herein apply
weights at the transmit side to create interference patters that result in one or
multiple locations in space with "zero RF energy." Unlike conventional transmit
beamforming or BD precoding designed to maximize signal quality (or SINR) to
every user or downlink throughput, respectively, the systems and methods described
herein minimize signal quality under certain conditions and/or from certain
transmitters, thereby creating points of zero RF energy at the client devices
(sometimes referred to herein as "users"). Moreover, in the context of distributed
input distributed-output (DIDO) systems (described in our related patents and
applications), transmit antennas distributed in space provide higher degrees of
freedom (i.e., higher channel spatial diversity) that can be exploited to create multiple
points of zero RF energy and/or maximum SINR to different users. For example, with
M transmit antennas it is possible to create up to (M-1) points of RF energy. By
contrast, practical beamforming or BD multiuser systems are typically designed with
closely spaced antennas at the transmit side that limit the number of simultaneous
users that can be serviced over the wireless link, for any number of transmit
antennas M.
[00124]      Consider a system with M transmit antennas and K users, with K<M. We
assume the transmitter is aware of the CSI (H E CKxM) between the M transmit
antennas and K users. For simplicity, every user is assumed to be equipped with
single antenna, but the same method can be extended to multiple receive antennas
per user. The precoding weights (w E Cmx1) that create zero RF energy at the K
users' locations are computed to satisfy the following condition
                                         Hw =   OKx1
    where OKX1 is the vector with all zero entries and H is the channel matrix obtained
    by combining the channel vectors (hk E Clxm) from the M transmit antennas to the
    K users as
                                                hl
                                          H = hk
                                               .hK
                                            19

     In one embodiment, singular value decomposition (SVD) of the channel matrix H
     is computed and the precoding weight w is defined as the right singular vector
     corresponding to the null subspace (identified by zero singular value) of H.
     The transmit antennas employ the weight vector defined above to transmit RF
     energy, while creating K points of zero RF energy at the locations of the K users
     such that the signal received at the kth user is given by
                                  rk   hkwsk + nk = 0 + nk
     where nk E C"' is the additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) at the kth user.
In one embodiment, singular value decomposition (SVD) of the channel matrix H is
computed and the precoding weight w is defined as the right singular vector
corresponding to the null subspace (identified by zero singular value) of H.
[00125]         In another embodiment, the wireless system is a DIDO system and
points of zero RF energy are created to pre-cancel interference to the clients
between different DIDO coverage areas. In U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, a
DIDO system is described which includes:
*            DIDO clients
*            DIDO distributed antennas
*            DIDO base transceiver stations (BTS)
*            DIDO base station network (BSN)
Every BTS is connected via the BSN to multiple distributed antennas that provide
service to given coverage area called DIDO cluster. In the present patent application
we describe a system and method for removing interference between adjacent DIDO
clusters. As illustrated in Figure 1, we assume the main DIDO cluster hosts the client
(i.e. a user device served by the multi-user DIDO system) affected by interference (or
target client) from the neighbor clusters.
[00126]         In one embodiment, neighboring clusters operate at different
frequencies according to frequency division multiple access (FDMA) techniques
similar to conventional cellular systems. For example, with frequency reuse factor of
3, the same carrier frequency is reused every third DIDO cluster as illustrated in
Figure 2. In Figure 2, the different carrier frequencies are identified as F1, F2 and F3.
While this embodiment may be used in some implementations, this solution yields
loss in spectral efficiency since the available spectrum is divided in multiple
                                             20

subbands and only a subset of DIDO clusters operate in the same subband.
Moreover, it requires complex cell planning to associate different DIDO clusters to
different frequencies, thereby preventing interference. Like prior art cellular systems,
such cellular planning requires specific placement of antennas and limiting of
transmit power to as to avoid interference between clusters using the same
frequency.
[00127]         In another embodiment, neighbor clusters operate in the same
frequency band, but at different time slots according to time division multiple access
(TDMA) technique. For example, as illustrated in Figure 3 DIDO transmission is
allowed only in time slots T1, T2, and T3 for certain clusters, as illustrated. Time slots
can be assigned equally to different clusters, such that different clusters are
scheduled according to a Round-Robin policy. If different clusters are characterized
by different data rate requirements (i.e., clusters in crowded urban environments as
opposed to clusters in rural areas with fewer number of clients per area of coverage),
different priorities are assigned to different clusters such that more time slots are
assigned to the clusters with larger data rate requirements. While TDMA as
described above may be employed in one embodiment of the invention, a TDMA
approach may require time synchronization across different clusters and may result
in lower spectral efficiency since interfering clusters cannot use the same frequency
at the same time.
[00128]         In one embodiment, all neighboring clusters transmit at the same time
in the same frequency band and use spatial processing across clusters to avoid
interference. In this embodiment, the multi-cluster DIDO system: (i) uses
conventional DIDO precoding within the main cluster to transmit simultaneous non
interfering data streams within the same frequency band to multiple clients (such as
described in the related patents and applications, including 7,599,420; 7,633,994;
7,636,381; and Application Serial No. 12/143,503); (ii) uses DIDO precoding with
interference cancellation in the neighbor clusters to avoid interference to the clients
lying in the interfering zones 8010 in Figure 4, by creating points of zero radio
frequency (RF) energy at the locations of the target clients. If a target client is in an
interfering zone 410, it will receive the sum of the RF containing the data stream
from the main cluster 411 and the zero RF energy from the interfering cluster 412
413, which will simply be the RF containing the data stream from the main cluster.
                                             21

Thus, adjacent clusters can utilize the same frequency simultaneously without target
clients in the interfering zone suffering from interference.
[00129]         In practical systems, the performance of DIDO precoding may be
affected by different factors such as: channel estimation error or Doppler effects
(yielding obsolete channel state information at the DIDO distributed antennas);
intermodulation distortion (IMD) in multicarrier DIDO systems; time or frequency
offsets. As a result of these effects, it may be impractical to achieve points of zero
RF energy. However, as long as the RF energy at the target client from the
interfering clusters is negligible compared to the RF energy from the main cluster,
the link performance at the target client is unaffected by the interference. For
example, let us assume the client requires 20dB signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) to
demodulate 4-QAM constellations using forward error correction (FEC) coding to
achieve target bit error rate (BER) of 10-6. If the RF energy at the target client
received from the interfering cluster is 20dB below the RF energy received from the
main cluster, the interference is negligible and the client can demodulate data
successfully within the predefined BER target. Thus, the term "zero RF energy" as
used herein does not necessarily mean that the RF energy from interfering RF
signals is zero. Rather, it means that the RF energy is sufficiently low relative to the
RF energy of the desired RF signal such that the desired RF signal may be received
at the receiver. Moreover, while certain desirable thresholds for interfering RF energy
relative to desired RF energy are described, the underlying principles of the invention
are not limited to any particular threshold values.
[00130]        There are different types of interfering zones 8010 as shown in Figure
4. For example, "type A" zones (as indicated by the letter "A" in Figure 80) are
affected by interference from only one neighbor cluster, whereas "type B" zones (as
indicated by the letter "B") account for interference from two or multiple neighbor
clusters.
[00131]         Figure 5 depicts a framework employed in one embodiment of the
invention. The dots denote DIDO distributed antennas, the crosses refer to the
DIDO clients and the arrows indicate the directions of propagation of RF energy. The
DIDO antennas in the main cluster transmit precoded data signals to the clients MC
501 in that cluster. Likewise, the DIDO antennas in the interfering cluster serve the
clients IC 502 within that cluster via conventional DIDO precoding. The green cross
503 denotes the target client TC 503 in the interfering zone. The DIDO antennas in
                                             22

the main cluster 511 transmit precoded data signals to the target client (black
arrows) via conventional DIDO precoding. The DIDO antennas in the interfering
cluster 512 use precoding to create zero RF energy towards the directions of the
target client 503 (green arrows).
[00132]           The received signal at target client k in any interfering zone 41 OA, B in
Figure 4 is given by
                    rk= HkWksk +HkZ u=Wusu             +   =Hc,k           sc+
                                                                          *=1Wci k             (1)
                                            u~k
where k=1,...,K, with K being the number of clients in the interfering zone 8010A, B,
U is the number of clients in the main DIDO cluster, C is the number of interfering
DIDO clusters 412-413 and Ic is the number of clients in the interfering cluster c.
Moreover, rk E CNXM is the vector containing the receive data streams at client k,
assuming M transmit DIDO antennas and N receive antennas at the client devices;
Sk  E CNx1   is the vector of transmit data streams to client k in the main DIDO cluster;
su E CNx1 is the vector of transmit data streams to client u in the main DIDO cluster;
se,E   CNx1   is the vector of transmit data streams to client i in the dh interfering DIDO
cluster; nk E CNx1 is the vector of additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) at the N
receive antennas of client k;     Hk  E CNXM is the DIDO channel matrix from the Mtransmit
DIDO antennas to the N receive antennas at client k in the main DIDO cluster;             Hc,k   E
CNxM   is the DIDO channel matrix from the Mtransmit DIDO antennas to the N receive
antennas t client k in the    cth interfering DIDO cluster;  Wk E CMXN is the matrix of DIDO
precoding weights to client kin the main DIDO cluster;       Wk  E CMXN is the matrix of DIDO
precoding weights to client u in the main DIDO cluster; Wej E CMXN is the matrix of
DIDO precoding weights to client iin the dh interfering DIDO cluster.
[00133]           To simplify the notation and without loss of generality, we assume all
clients are equipped with N receive antennas and there are M DIDO distributed
antennas in every DIDO cluster, with M            (N - U) and M   (N -I), Vc =1,   ... , C. If M
is larger than the total number of receive antennas in the cluster, the extra transmit
antennas are used to pre-cancel interference to the target clients in the interfering
zone or to improve link robustness to the clients within the same cluster via diversity
schemes described in the related patents and applications, including 7,599,420;
7,633,994; 7,636,381; and Application Serial No. 12/143,503.
[00134]           The DIDO precoding weights are computed to pre-cancel inter-client
interference within the same DIDO cluster. For example, block diagonalization (BD)
                                                23

precoding described in the related patents and applications, including 7,599,420;
7,633,994; 7,636,381; and Application Serial No. 12/143,503 and [7] can be used to
remove inter-client interference, such that the following condition is satisfied in the
main cluster
                              HkWu =ONxN;        V  u = 1, ... , U; with u # k.                (2)
The precoding weight matrices in the neighbor DIDO clusters are designedsuch that
the following condition is satisfied
                         Hc,kWc,i = 0 NxN        C=   1,...,C and Vi = 1,...,Ic.               (3)
To compute the precoding matrices We,, the downlink channel from the M transmit
antennas to the Ic clients in the interfering cluster as well as to client kin the interfering
zone is estimated and the precoding matrix is computed by the DIDO BTS in the
interfering cluster. If BD method is used to compute the precoding matrices in the
interfering clusters, the following effective channel matrix is built to compute the
weights to the   jh client in the neighbor clusters
                                          Hc,i =   ~                                           (4)
                                                  HcO
where Hci is the matrix obtained from the channel matrix Hc E C(NIc)xM for the
interfering cluster c, where the rows corresponding to the           h client are removed.
Substituting conditions (2) and (3) into (1), we obtain the received data streams for
target client k, where intra-cluster and inter-cluster interference is removed
                                         rk = HkWksk + nk.                                     (5)
The precoding weights We in (1) computed in the neighbor clusters are designed to
transmit precoded data streams to all clients in those clusters, while pre-cancelling
interference to the target client in the interfering zone. The target client receives
precoded data only from its main cluster. In a different embodiment, the same data
stream is sent to the target client from both main and neighbor clusters to obtain
diversity gain. In this case, the signal model in (5) is expressed as
                                  rk =  (HkWk +       =1 Hc,k Wc,k)Sk +    nk                  (6)
where   Wc,k is the DIDO precoding matrix from the DIDO transmitters in the            0th cluster
to the target client k in the interfering zone. Note that the method in (6) requires time
synchronization across neighboring clusters, which may be complex to achieve in
                                                24

large systems, but nonetheless, is quite feasible if the diversity gain benefit justifies
the cost of implementation.
[00135]         We begin by evaluating the performance of the proposed method in
terms of symbol error rate (SER) as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR).
Without loss of generality, we define the following signal model assuming single
antenna per client and reformulate (1) as
                            rk -= V5Ni hkwksk +   VINRi hc,k Et     S,1   +-k            (7)
where INR is the interference-to-noise ratio defined as INR=SNR/SIR and SIR is the
signal-to-interference ratio.
[00136]         Figure 6 shows the SER as a function of the SNR, assuming
SIR=1OdB for the target client in the interfering zone. Without loss of generality, we
measured the SER for 4-QAM and 16-QAM without forwards error correction (FEC)
coding. We fix the target SER to 1% for uncoded systems. This target corresponds
to different values of SNR depending on the modulation order (i.e., SNR=20dB for 4
QAM and SNR=28dB for 16-QAM). Lower SER targets can be satisfied for the same
values of SNR when using FEC coding due to coding gain. We consider the scenario
of two clusters (one main cluster and one interfering cluster) with two DIDO antennas
and two clients (equipped with single antenna each) per cluster. One of the clients in
the main cluster lies in the interfering zone. We assume flat-fading narrowband
channels, but the following results can be extended to frequency selective
multicarrier (OFDM) systems, where each subcarrier undergoes flat-fading. We
consider two scenarios: (i) one with inter-DIDO-cluster interference (IDCI) where the
precoding weights we,i are computed without accounting for the target client in the
interfering zone; and (ii) the other where the IDCI is removed by computing the
weights we,i to cancel IDCI to the target client. We observe that in presence of IDCI
the SER is high and above the predefined target. With IDCI-precoding at the
neighbor cluster the interference to the target client is removed and the SER targets
are reached for SNR>20dB.
[00137]         The results in Figure 6 assumes IDCI-precoding as in (5). If IDCI
precoding at the neighbor clusters is also used to precode data streams to the target
client in the interfering zone as in (6), additional diversity gain is obtained. Figure 7
compares the SER derived from two techniques: (i) "Method 1" using the IDCI
                                             25

precoding in (5); (ii) "Method 2" employing IDCI-precoding in (6) where the neighbor
clusters also transmit precoded data stream to the target client. Method 2 yields
 ~3dB gain compared to conventional IDCI-precoding due to additional array gain
provided by the DIDO antennas in the neighbor cluster used to transmit precoded
data stream to the target client. More generally, the array gain of Method 2 over
Method 1 is proportional to 10*Iog1 0(C+1), where C is the number of neighbor
clusters and the factor "1"refers to the main cluster.
[00138]        Next, we evaluate the performance of the above method as a function
of the target client's location with respect to the interfering zone. We consider one
simple scenario where a target client 8401 moves from the main DIDO cluster 802 to
the interfering cluster 803, as depicted in Figure 8. We assume all DIDO antennas
812 within the main cluster 802 employ BD precoding to cancel intra-cluster
interference to satisfy condition (2). We assume single interfering DIDO cluster,
single receiver antenna at the client device 801 and equal pathloss from all DIDO
antennas in the main or interfering cluster to the client (i.e., DIDO antennas placed in
circle around the client). We use one simplified pathloss model with pathloss
exponent 4 (as in typical urban environments) [11].
The analysis hereafter is based on the following simplified signal model that extends
(7) to account for pathloss
                                                        4
                               SNR-D              SNR-D
                                      hkwksk + I    _D) 4
                                                          hc,k V=E1 W   +-n            (8)
where the signal-to-interference (SIR) is derived as SIR=((1-D)/D) 4 . In modeling the
IDCI, we consider three scenarios: i) ideal case with no IDCI; ii) IDCI pre-cancelled via
BD precoding in the interfering cluster to satisfy condition (3); iii) with IDCI, not pre
cancelled by the neighbor cluster.
[00139]        Figure 9 shows the signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR) as a
function of D (i.e., as the target client moves from the main cluster 802 towards the
DIDO antennas 813 in the interfering cluster 8403). The SINR is derived as the ratio
of signal power and interference plus noise power using the signal model in (8). We
assume that Do=0.1 and SNR=50dB for D=Do. In absence of IDCI the wireless link
performance is only affected by noise and the SINR decreases due to pathloss. In
presence of IDCl (i.e., without IDCI-precoding) the interference from the DIDO
antennas in the neighbor cluster contributes to reduce the SINR.
                                             26

[00140]         Figure 10 shows the symbol error rate (SER) performance of the three
scenarios above for 4-QAM modulation in flat-fading narrowband channels. These
SER results correspond to the SINR in Figure 9. We assume SER threshold of 1%
for uncoded systems (i.e., without FEC) corresponding to SINR threshold
SINRT=2OdB in Figure 9. The SINR threshold depends on the modulation order
used for data transmission. Higher modulation orders are typically characterized by
higher SINRT to achieve the same target error rate. With FEC, lower target SER can
be achieved for the same SINR value due to coding gain. In case of IDCI without
precoding, the target SER is achieved only within the range D<0.25. With IDCI
precoding at the neighbor cluster the range that satisfies the target SER is extended
up to D<0.6. Beyond that range, the SINR increases due to pathloss and the SER
target is not satisfied.
[00141]         One embodiment of a method for IDCI precoding is shown in Figure 11
and consists of the following steps:
e            SIR estimate 1101: Clients estimate the signal power from the main DIDO
cluster (i.e., based on received precoded data) and the interference-plus-noise signal
power from the neighbor DIDO clusters. In single-carrier DIDO systems, the frame
structure can be designed with short periods of silence. For example, periods of
silence can be defined between training for channel estimation and precoded data
transmissions during channel state information (CSI) feedback. In one embodiment,
the interference-plus-noise signal power from neighbor clusters is measured during
the periods of silence from the DIDO antennas in the main cluster. In practical DIDO
multicarrier (OFDM) systems, null tones are typically used to prevent direct current
(DC) offset and attenuation at the edge of the band due to filtering at transmit and
receive    sides.   In another embodiment     employing     multicarrier systems, the
interference-plus-noise signal power is estimated from the null tones. Correction
factors can be used to compensate for transmit/receive filter attenuation at the edge
of the band. Once the signal-plus-interference-and-noise power (Ps) from the main
cluster and the interference-plus-noise power from neighbor clusters (PIN) are
estimated, the client computes the SINR as
                                         SINR =                                     (9)
                                                    PIN
                                          27

Alternatively, the SINR estimate is derived from the received signal strength indication
(RSSI) used in typical wireless communication systems to measure the radio signal
power.
We observe the metric in (9) cannot discriminate between noise and interference
power level. For example, clients affected by shadowing (i.e., behind obstacles that
attenuate the signal power from all DIDO distributed antennas in the main cluster) in
interference-free environments may estimate low SINR even though they are not
affected by inter-cluster interference.
A more reliable metric for the proposed method is the SIR computed as
                                               SIR = Ps-PIN(10)
                                                     PIN--PN
where PN is the noise power. In practical multicarrier OFDM systems, the noise power
PN in (10) is estimated from the null tones, assuming all DIDO antennas from main
and neighbor clusters use the same set of null tones. The interference-plus-noise
power (PIN), is estimated from the period of silence as mentioned above. Finally, the
signal-plus-interference-and-noise power (Ps) is derived from the data tones. From
these estimates, the client computes the SIR in (10).
e            Channel estimation at neighbor clusters 1102-1103: If the estimated
SIR in (10) is below predefined threshold (SIRT), determined at 8702 in Figure 11, the
client starts listening to training signals from neighbor clusters. Note that SIRT depends
on the modulation and FEC coding scheme (MCS) used for data transmission.
Different SIR targets are defined depending on the client's MCS. When DIDO
distributed antennas from different clusters are time-synchronized (i.e., locked to the
same pulse-per-second, PPS, time reference), the client exploits the training
sequence to deliver its channel estimates to the DIDO antennas in the neighbor
clusters at 8703. The training sequence for channel estimation in the neighbor clusters
are designed to be orthogonal to the training from the main cluster. Alternatively, when
DIDO antennas in different clusters are not time-synchronized, orthogonal sequences
(with good cross-correlation properties) are used for time synchronization in different
DIDO clusters. Once the client locks to the time/frequency reference of the neighbor
clusters, channel estimation is carried out at 1103.
                                               28

*            IDCI Precoding 1104: Once the channel estimates are available at the
DIDO BTS in the neighbor clusters, IDCI-precoding is computed to satisfy the
condition in (3). The DIDO antennas in the neighbor clusters transmit precoded data
streams only to the clients in their cluster, while pre-cancelling interference to the
clients in the interfering zone 410 in Figure 4. We observe that if the client lies in the
type B interfering zone 410 in Figure 4, interference to the client is generated by
multiple clusters and IDCI-precoding is carried out by all neighbor clusters at the same
time.
Methods for Handoff
[00142]        Hereafter, we describe different handoff methods for clients that move
across DIDO clusters populated by distributed antennas that are located in separate
areas or that provide different kinds of services (i.e., low- or high-mobility services).
a.           Handoff Between Adjacent DIDO Clusters
[00143]        In one embodiment, the IDCI-precoder to remove inter-cluster
interference described above is used as a baseline for handoff methods in DIDO
systems. Conventional handoff in cellular systems is conceived for clients to switch
seamlessly across cells served by different base stations. In DIDO systems, handoff
allows clients to move from one cluster to another without loss of connection.
[00144]        To illustrate one embodiment of a handoff strategy for DIDO systems,
we consider again the example in Figure 8 with only two clusters 802 and 803. As
the client 801 moves from the main cluster (C1) 802 to the neighbor cluster (C2) 803,
one embodiment of a handoff method dynamically calculates the signal quality in
different clusters and selects the cluster that yields the lowest error rate performance
to the client.
[00145]        Figure 12 shows the SINR variation as a function of the client's
distance from the center of clusters C1. For 4-QAM modulation without FEC coding,
we consider target SINR=20dB. The line identified by circles represents the SINR for
the target client being served by the DIDO antennas in C1, when both C1 and C2
use DIDO precoding without interference cancellation. The SINR decreases as a
function of D due to pathloss and interference from the neighboring cluster. When
IDCI-precoding is implemented at the neighboring cluster, the SINR loss is only due
to pathloss (as shown by the line with triangles), since interference is completely
removed. Symmetric behavior is experienced when the client is served from the
                                            29

neighboring cluster. One embodiment of the handoff strategy is defined such that, as
the client moves from C1 to C2, the algorithm switches between different DIDO
schemes to maintain the SINR above predefined target.
[00146]         From the plots in Figure 12, we derive the SER for 4-QAM modulation
in Figure 13. We observe that, by switching between different precoding strategies,
the SER is maintained within predefined target.
[00147]         One embodiment of the handoff strategy is as follows.
0            C1-DIDO and C2-DIDO precoding: When the client lies within C1, away
from the interfering zone, both clusters C1 and C2 operate with conventional DIDO
precoding independently.
*            C1-DIDO and C2-IDCI precoding: As the client moves towards the
interfering zone, its SIR or SINR degrades. When the target SINRT1 is reached, the
target client starts estimating the channel from all DIDO antennas in C2 and provides
the CSI to the BTS of C2. The BTS in C2 computes IDCI-precoding and transmits to
all clients in C2 while preventing interference to the target client. For as long as the
target client is within the interfering zone, it will continue to provide its CSI to both C1
and C2.
e            C1-IDCI and C2-DIDO precoding: As the client moves towards C2, its SIR
or SINR keeps decreasing until it again reaches a target. At this point the client decides
to switch to the neighbor cluster. In this case, C1 starts using the CSI from the target
client to create zero interference towards its direction with IDCI-precoding, whereas
the neighbor cluster uses the CSI for conventional DIDO-precoding.                    In one
embodiment, as the SIR estimate approaches the target, the clusters C1 and C2 try
both DIDO- and IDCI-precoding schemes alternatively, to allow the client to estimate
the SIR in both cases. Then the client selects the best scheme, to maximize certain
error rate performance metric. When this method is applied, the cross-over point for
the handoff strategy occurs at the intersection of the curves with triangles and rhombus
in Figure 12. One embodiment uses the modified IDCI-precoding method described
in (6) where the neighbor cluster also transmits precoded data stream to the target
client to provide array gain. With this approach the handoff strategy is simplified, since
the client does not need to estimate the SINR for both strategies at the cross-over
point.
                                             30

*            C1-DIDO and C2-DIDO precoding: As the client moves out of the
interference zone towards C2, the main cluster C1 stops pre-cancelling interference
towards that target client via IDCI-precoding and switches back to conventional DIDO
precoding to all clients remaining in C1. This final cross-over point in our handoff
strategy is useful to avoid unnecessary CSI feedback from the target client to C1,
thereby reducing the overhead over the feedback channel. In one embodiment a
second target SINRT2 is defined. When the SINR (or SIR) increases above this target,
the strategy is switched to C1-DIDO and C2-DIDO. In one embodiment, the cluster C1
keeps alternating between DIDO- and IDCI-precoding to allow the client to estimate
the SINR. Then the client selects the method for C1 that
more closely approaches the target SINRT1 from above.
[00148]         The method described above computes the SINR or SIR estimates for
different schemes in real time and uses them to select the optimal scheme. In one
embodiment, the handoff algorithm is designed based on the finite-state machine
illustrated in Figure 14. The client keeps track of its current state and switches to the
next state when the SINR or SIR drops below or above the predefined thresholds
illustrated in Figure 12. As discussed above, in state 1201, both clusters C1 and C2
operate with conventional DIDO precoding independently and the client is served by
cluster Cl; in state 1202, the client is served by cluster C1, the BTS in C2 computes
IDCI-precoding and cluster C1 operates using conventional DIDO precoding; in state
1203, the client is served by cluster C2, the BTS in C1 computes IDCI-precoding and
cluster C2 operates using conventional DIDO precoding; and in state 1204, the client
is served by cluster C2, and both clusters C1 and C2 operate with conventional
DIDO precoding independently.
[00149]         In presence of shadowing effects, the signal quality or SIR may
fluctuate around the thresholds as shown in Figure 15, causing repetitive switching
between consecutive states in Figure 14. Changing states repetitively is an
undesired effect, since it results in significant overhead on the control channels
between clients and BTSs to enable switching between transmission schemes.
Figure 15 depicts one example of a handoff strategy in the presence of shadowing.
In one embodiment, the shadowing coefficient is simulated according to log-normal
distribution with variance 3 [3]. Hereafter, we define some methods to prevent
repetitive switching effect during DIDO handoff.
                                              31

[00150]         One embodiment of the invention employs a hysteresis loop to cope
with state switching effects. For example, when switching between "Cl -DIDO,C2
IDCI" 9302 and "Cl -IDCI,C2-DIDO" 9303 states in Figure 14 (or vice versa) the
threshold SINRT1 can be adjusted within the range A1. This method avoids repetitive
switches between states as the signal quality oscillates around SINRT1. For example,
Figure 16 shows the hysteresis loop mechanism when switching between any two
states in Figure 14. To switch from state B to A the SIR must be larger than
(SIRT1+A1/2), but to switch back from A to B the SIR must drop below (SIRT1-A1/2).
[00151]        In a different embodiment, the threshold SINRT2 is adjusted to avoid
repetitive switching between the first and second (or third and fourth) states of the
finite-state machine in Figure 14. For example, a range of values A2 may be defined
such that the threshold SINRT2 is chosen within that range depending on channel
condition and shadowing effects.
[00152]        In one embodiment, depending on the variance of shadowing expected
over the wireless link, the SINR threshold is dynamically adjusted within the range
[SINRT2, SINRT2+A2]. The variance of the log-normal distribution can be estimated
from the variance of the received signal strength (or RSSI) as the client moves from
its current cluster to the neighbor cluster.
[00153]        The methods above assume the client triggers the handoff strategy. In
one embodiment, the handoff decision is deferred to the DIDO BTSs, assuming
communication across multiple BTSs is enabled.
[00154]        For simplicity, the methods above are derived assuming no FEC
coding and 4-QAM. More generally, the SINR or SIR thresholds are derived for
different modulation coding schemes (MCSs) and the handoff strategy is designed in
combination with link adaptation (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381) to optimize
downlink data rate to each client in the interfering zone.
b.           Handoff Between Low- and High-Doppler DIDO Networks
[00155]        DIDO systems employ closed-loop transmission schemes to precode
data streams over the downlink channel. Closed-loop schemes are inherently
constrained by latency over the feedback channel. In practical DIDO systems,
computational time can be reduced by transceivers with high processing power and
it is expected that most of the latency is introduced by the DIDO BSN, when
delivering CSI and baseband precoded data from the BTS to the distributed
antennas. The BSN can be comprised of various network technologies including, but
                                             32

not limited to, digital subscriber lines (DSL), cable modems, fiber rings, T1 lines,
hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) networks, and/or fixed wireless (e.g., WiFi). Dedicated
fiber typically has very large bandwidth and low latency, potentially less than a
millisecond in local region, but it is less widely deployed than DSL and cable
modems. Today, DSL and cable modem connections typically have between 10
25ms in last-mile latency in the United States, but they are very widely deployed.
[00156]          The maximum latency over the BSN determines the maximum Doppler
frequency that can be tolerated over the DIDO wireless link without performance
degradation of DIDO precoding. For example, in [1] we showed that at the carrier
frequency of 400MHz, networks with latency of about 10msec (i.e., DSL) can tolerate
clients' velocity up to 8mph (running speed), whereas networks with 1msec latency
(i.e., fiber ring) can support speed up to 70mph (i.e., freeway traffic).
[00157]          We define two or multiple DIDO sub-networks depending on the
maximum Doppler frequency that can be tolerated over the BSN. For example, a
BSN with high-latency DSL connections between the DIDO BTS and distributed
antennas can only deliver low mobility or fixed-wireless services (i.e., low-Doppler
network), whereas a low-latency BSN over a low-latency fiber ring can tolerate high
mobility (i.e., high-Doppler network). We observe that the majority of broadband
users are not moving when they use broadband, and further, most are unlikely to be
located near areas with many high speed objects moving by (e.g., next to a highway)
since such locations are typically less desirable places to live or operate an office.
However, there are broadband users who will be using broadband at high speeds
(e.g., while in a car driving on the highway) or will be near high speed objects (e.g.,
in a store located near a highway). To address these two differing user Doppler
scenarios, in one embodiment, a low-Doppler DIDO network consists of a typically
larger number of DIDO antennas with relatively low power (i.e., 1W to 100W, for
indoor or rooftop installation) spread across a wide area, whereas a high-Doppler
network consists of a typically lower number of DIDO antennas with high power
transmission (i.e., 100W for rooftop or tower installation). The low-Doppler DIDO
network serves the typically larger number of low-Doppler users and can do so at
typically lower connectivity cost using inexpensive high-latency broadband
connections, such as DSL and cable modems. The high-Doppler DIDO network
serves the typically fewer number of high-Doppler users and can do so at typically
                                             33

higher connectivity cost using more expensive low-latency broadband connections,
such as fiber.
[00158]        To avoid interference across different types of DIDO networks (e.g.
low-Doppler and high-Doppler), different multiple access techniques can be
employed such as: time division multiple access (TDMA), frequency division multiple
access (FDMA), or code division multiple access (CDMA).
[00159]         Hereafter, we propose methods to assign clients to different types of
DIDO networks and enable handoff between them. The network selection is based
on the type of mobility of each client. The client's velocity (v) is proportional to the
maximum Doppler shift according to the following equation [6]
                                             fd  = sinO                                  (11)
where fd is the maximum Doppler shift, A is the wavelength corresponding to the carrier
frequency and 0 is the angle between the vector indicating the direction transmitter
client and the velocity vector.
[00160]         In one embodiment, the Doppler shift of every client is calculated via
blind estimation techniques. For example, the Doppler shift can be estimated by
sending RF energy to the client and analyzing the reflected signal, similar to Doppler
radar systems.
[00161]         In another embodiment, one or multiple DIDO antennas send training
signals to the client. Based on those training signals, the client estimates the Doppler
shift using techniques such as counting the zero-crossing rate of the channel gain, or
performing spectrum analysis. We observe that for fixed velocity v and client's
trajectory, the angular velocity v sin 0 in (11) may depend on the relative distance of
the client from every DIDO antenna. For example, DIDO antennas in the proximity of
a moving client yield larger angular velocity and Doppler shift than faraway antennas.
In one embodiment, the Doppler velocity is estimated from multiple DIDO antennas
at different distances from the client and the average, weighted average or standard
deviation is used as an indicator for the client's mobility. Based on the estimated
Doppler indicator, the DIDO BTS decides whether to assign the client to low- or high
Doppler networks.
[00162]        The Doppler indicator is periodically monitored for all clients and sent
back to the BTS. When one or multiple clients change their Doppler velocity (i.e.,
                                              34

client riding in the bus versus client walking or sitting), those clients are dynamically
re-assigned to different DIDO network that can tolerate their level of mobility.
[00163]         Although the Doppler of low-velocity clients can be affected by being in
the vicinity of high-velocity objects (e.g. near a highway), the Doppler is typically far
less than the Doppler of clients that are in motion themselves. As such, in one
embodiment, the velocity of the client is estimated (e.g. by using a means such as
monitoring the clients position using GPS), and if the velocity is low, the client is
assigned to a low-Doppler network, and if the velocity if high, the client is assigned to
a high-Doppler network.
Methods for Power Control and Antenna Grouping
[00164]         The block diagram of DIDO systems with power control is depicted in
Figure 17. One or multiple data streams (sk) for every client (1,...,)      are first
multiplied by the weights generated by the DIDO precoding unit. Precoded data
streams are multiplied by power scaling factor computed by the power control unit,
based on the input channel quality information (CQI). The CQI is either fed back from
the clients to DIDO BTS or derived from the uplink channel assuming uplink
downlink channel reciprocity. The U precoded streams for different clients are then
combined and multiplexed into Mdata streams (tm), one for each of the Mtransmit
antennas. Finally, the streams tm are sent to the digital-to-analog converter (DAC)
unit, the radio frequency (RF) unit, power amplifier (PA) unit and finally to the
antennas.
[00165]         The power control unit measures the CQI for all clients. In one
embodiment, the CQI is the average SNR or RSSI. The CQI varies for different
clients depending on pathloss or shadowing. Our power control method adjusts the
transmit power scaling factors    Pk for different clients and multiplies them by the
precoded data streams generated for different clients. Note that one or multiple data
streams may be generated for every client, depending on the number of clients'
receive antennas.
[00166]         To evaluate the performance of the proposed method, we defined the
following signal model based on (5), including pathloss and power control
parameters
                               rk     SNR Pk ak HkWksk + nk                            (12)
                                              35

where k=1,...,U, U is the number of clients, SNR=Po/No, with Po being the average
transmit power, No the noise power and ak the pathloss/shadowing coefficient. To
model pathloss/shadowing, we use the following simplified model
                                                    k-1
                                           Ck=eaU                                    (13)
where a=4 is the pathloss exponent and we assume the pathloss increases with the
clients' index (i.e., clients are located at increasing distance from the DIDO antennas).
[00167]        Figure 18 shows the SER versus SNR assuming four DIDO transmit
antennas and four clients in different scenarios. The ideal case assumes all clients
have the same pathloss (i.e., a=O), yielding Pk=1 for all clients. The plot with squares
refers to the case where clients have different pathloss coefficients and no power
control. The curve with dots is derived from the same scenario (with pathloss) where
the power control coefficients are chosen such that Pk - l/ak. With the power
control method, more power is assigned to the data streams intended to the clients
that undergo higher pathloss/shadowing, resulting in 9dB SNR gain (for this
particular scenario) compared to the case with no power control.
[00168]        The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) (and other
international regulatory agencies) defines constraints on the maximum power that
can be transmitted from wireless devices to limit the exposure of human body to
electromagnetic (EM) radiation. There are two types of limits [2]: i)
"occupational/controlled" limit, where people are made fully aware of the radio
frequency (RF) source via fences, warnings or labels; ii) "general
population/uncontrolled" limit where there is no control over the exposure.
[00169]        Different emission levels are defined for different types of wireless
devices. In general, DIDO distributed antennas used for indoor/outdoor applications
qualify for the FCC category of "mobile" devices, defined as [2]:
"transmitting devices designed to be used in other than fixed locations that would
normally be used with radiating structures maintained 20 cm or more from the body of
the user or nearby persons."
[00170]        The EM emission of "mobile" devices is measured in terms of
maximum permissible exposure (MPE), expressed in mW/cm 2 . Figure 19 shows the
MPE power density as a function of distance from the source of RF radiation for
                                               36

different values of transmit power at 700MHz carrier frequency. The maximum
allowed transmit power to meet the FCC "uncontrolled" limit for devices that typically
operate beyond 20cm from the human body is 1W.
[00171]        Less restrictive power emission constraints are defined for transmitters
installed on rooftops or buildings, away from the "general population". For these
"rooftop transmitters" the FCC defines a looser emission limit of 1000W, measured in
terms of effective radiated power (ERP).
[00172]        Based on the above FCC constraints, in one embodiment we define
two types of DIDO distributed antennas for practical systems:
e            Low-power (LP) transmitters: located anywhere (i.e., indoor or outdoor) at
any height, with maximum transmit power of 1W and 5Mbps consumer-grade
broadband (e.g. DSL, cable modem,              Fibe To The Home (FTTH)) backhaul
connectivity.
e           High-power (HP) transmitters: rooftop or building mounted antennas at
height of approximately 10 meters, with transmit power of 100W and a commercial
grade broadband (e.g. optical fiber ring) backhaul (with effectively "unlimited" data rate
compared to the throughput available over the DIDO wireless links).
[00173]        Note that LP transmitters with DSL or cable modem connectivity are
good candidates for low-Doppler DIDO networks (as described in the previous
section), since their clients are mostly fixed or have low mobility. HP transmitters with
commercial fiber connectivity can tolerate higher client's mobility and can be used in
high-Doppler DIDO networks.
[00174]        To gain practical intuition on the performance of DIDO systems with
different types of LP/HP transmitters, we consider the practical case of DIDO
antenna installation in downtown Palo Alto, CA. Figure 20a shows a random
distribution of NLP=100 low-power DIDO distributed antennas in Palo Alto. In Figure
20b, 50 LP antennas are substituted with NHP=50 high-power transmitters.
[00175]        Based on the DIDO antenna distributions in Figures 20a-b, we derive
the coverage maps in Palo Alto for systems using DIDO technology. Figures 21a
and 21b show two power distributions corresponding to the configurations in Figure
20a and Figure 20b, respectively. The received power distribution (expressed in
dBm) is derived assuming the pathloss/shadowing model for urban environments
                                             37

defined by the 3GPP standard [3] at the carrier frequency of 700MHz. We observe
that using 50% of HP transmitters yields better coverage over the selected area.
[00176]         Figures 22a-b depict the rate distribution for the two scenarios above.
The throughput (expressed in Mbps) is derived based on power thresholds for
different modulation coding schemes defined in the 3GPP long-term evolution (LTE)
standard in [4,5]. The total available bandwidth is fixed to 10MHz at 700MHz carrier
frequency. Two different frequency allocation plans are considered: i) 5MHz
spectrum allocated only to the LP stations; ii) 9MHz to HP transmitters and 1MHz to
LP transmitters. Note that lower bandwidth is typically allocated to LP stations due to
their DSL backhaul connectivity with limited throughput. Figures 22a-b shows that
when using 50% of HP transmitters it is possible to increase significantly the rate
distribution, raising the average per-client data rate from 2.4Mbps in Figure 22a to
38Mbps in Figure 22b.
[00177]         Next, we defined algorithms to control power transmission of LP
stations such that higher power is allowed at any given time, thereby increasing the
throughput over the downlink channel of DIDO systems in Figure 22b. We observe
that the FCC limits on the power density is defined based on average over time as
[2]
                                        S =     1s
                                               =-   t                                 (14)
                                               TMPE
where   TMPE        =  tn is the MPE averaging time, tn is the period of time of exposure
to radiation with power density Sn. For "controlled" exposure the average time is 6
minutes, whereas for "uncontrolled" exposure it is increased up to 30 minutes. Then,
any power source is allowed to transmit at larger power levels than the MPE limits, as
long as the average power density in (14) satisfies the FCC limit over 30 minute
average for "uncontrolled" exposure.
[00178]         Based on this analysis, we define adaptive power control methods to
increase instantaneous per-antenna transmit power, while maintaining average
power per DIDO antenna below MPE limits. We consider DIDO systems with more
transmit antennas than active clients. This is a reasonable assumption given that
DIDO antennas can be conceived as inexpensive wireless devices (similar to WiFi
                                            38

access points) and can be placed anywhere there is DSL, cable modem, optical
fiber, or other Internet connectivity.
[00179]        The framework of DIDO systems with adaptive per-antenna power
control is depicted in Figure 23. The amplitude of the digital signal coming out of the
multiplexer 234 is dynamically adjusted with power scaling factors S1,...,SM, before
being sent to the DAC units 235. The power scaling factors are computed by the
power control unit 232 based on the CQI 233.
[00180]        In one embodiment, Ng DIDO antenna groups are defined. Every group
contains at least as many DIDO antennas as the number of active clients (K). At any
given time, only one group has Na>Kactive DIDO antennas transmitting to the
clients at larger power level (So) than MPE limit (MPE). One method iterates across
all antenna groups according to Round-Robin scheduling policy depicted in Figure
24. In another embodiment, different scheduling techniques (i.e., proportional-fair
scheduling [8]) are employed for cluster selection to optimize error rate or throughput
performance.
[00181]        Assuming Round-Robin power allocation, from (14) we derive the
average transmit power for every DIDO antenna as
                                       S =S TMPE
                                             o        MPE                           (15)
where to is the period of time over which the antenna group is active and TMPE=30min
is the average time defined by the FCC guidelines [2]. The ratio in (15) is the duty
factor (DF) of the groups, defined such that the average transmit power from every
DIDO antenna satisfies the MPE limit (MPE). The duty factor depends on the number
of active clients, the number of groups and active antennas per-group, according to
the following definition
                                       DF     K
                                            NgNa
                                                  -                                 (16)
                                                     TMPE
The SNR gain (in dB) obtained in DIDO systems with power control and antenna
grouping is expressed as a function of the duty factor as
                                     GdB  =10 log 10 (s)                            (17)
We observe the gain in (17) is achieved at the expense of GdB additional transmit
power across all DIDO antennas.
In general, the total transmit power from all Na of all Ng groups is defined as
                                            39

                                           jJ=Z~gXNa   pj(8
                                             j=    i=1                                 (18)
where the Pij is the average per-antenna transmit power given by
                               Pi; =   1      MP
                                           rTMP                 -o
and Si;(t) is the power spectral density for the ith transmit antenna within the jth group.
In one embodiment, the power spectral density in (19) is designed for every antenna
to optimize error rate or throughput performance.
[00182]         To gain some intuition on the performance of the proposed method,
consider 400 DIDO distributed antennas in a given coverage area and 400 clients
subscribing to a wireless Internet service offered over DIDO systems. It is unlikely
that every Internet connection will be fully utilized all the time. Let us assume that
10% of the clients will be actively using the wireless Internet connection at any given
time. Then, 400 DIDO antennas can be divided in Ng=10 groups of Na=40 antennas
each, every group serving K=40 active clients at any given time with duty factor
DF=0.1. The SNR gain resulting from this transmission scheme is
GdB=101og1o(1/DF)=10dB, provided by 10dB additional transmit power from all DIDO
antennas. We observe, however, that the average per-antenna transmit power is
constant and is within the MPE limit.
[00183]         Figure 25 compares the (uncoded) SER performance of the above
power control with antenna grouping against conventional eigenmode selection in
U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381. All schemes use BD precoding with four clients, each
client equipped with single antenna. The SNR refers to the ratio of per-transmit
antenna power over noise power (i.e., per-antenna transmit SNR). The curve
denoted with DIDO 4x4 assumes four transmit antenna and BD precoding. The
curve with squares denotes the SER performance with two extra transmit antennas
and BD with eigenmode selection, yielding 10dB SNR gain (at 1% SER target) over
conventional BD precoding. Power control with antenna grouping and DF=1/10
yields 10dB gain at the same SER target as well. We observe that eigenmode
selection changes the slope of the SER curve due to diversity gain, whereas our
power control method shifts the SER curve to the left (maintaining the same slope)
due to increased average transmit power. For comparison, the SER with larger duty
factor DF=1/50 is shown to provide additional 7dB gain compared to DF=1/10.
                                             40

[00184]        Note that our power control may have lower complexity than
conventional eigenmode selection methods. In fact, the antenna ID of every group
can be pre-computed and shared among DIDO antennas and clients via lookup
tables, such that only K channel estimates are required at any given time. For
eigenmode selection, (K+2) channel estimates are computed and additional
computational processing is required to select the eigenmode that minimizes the
SER at any given time for all clients.
[00185]        Next, we describe another method involving DIDO antenna grouping to
reduce CSI feedback overhead in some special scenarios. Figure 26a shows one
scenario where clients (dots) are spread randomly in one area covered by multiple
DIDO distributed antennas (crosses). The average power over every transmit
receive wireless link can be computed as
                                       A = {IH 2}.                                 (20)
where H is the channel estimation matrix available at the DIDO BTS.
[00186]       The matrices A in Figures 26a-c are obtained numerically by
averaging the channel matrices over 1000 instances. Two alternative scenarios are
depicted in Figure 26b and Figure 26c, respectively, where clients are grouped
together around a subset of DIDO antennas and receive negligible power from DIDO
antennas located far away. For example, Figure 26b shows two groups of antennas
yielding block diagonal matrix A. One extreme scenario is when every client is very
close to only one transmitter and the transmitters are far away from one another,
such that the power from all other DIDO antennas is negligible. In this case, the
DIDO link degenerates in multiple SISO links and A is a diagonal matrix as in Figure
26c.
[00187]        In all three scenarios above, the BD precoding dynamically adjusts the
precoding weights to account for different power levels over the wireless links
between DIDO antennas and clients. It is convenient, however, to identify multiple
groups within the DIDO cluster and operate DIDO precoding only within each group.
Our proposed grouping method yields the following advantages:
e           Computational gain: DIDO precoding is computed only within every group
in the cluster. For example, if BD precoding is used, singular value decomposition
(SVD) has complexity O(n 3), where n is the minimum dimension of the channel matrix
H. If H can be reduced to a block diagonal matrix, the SVD is computed for every block
                                            41

with reduced complexity. In fact, if the channel matrix is divided into two block matrices
with dimensions ni and n2 such that n=nl+n2, the complexity of the SVD is only
O(n1 3 )+O(n2 3)<O(n 3 ). In the extreme case, if H is diagonal matrix, the DIDO link reduce
to multiple SISO links and no SVD calculation is required.
*            Reduced CSI feedback overhead: When DIDO antennas and clients are
divided into groups, in one embodiment, the CSI is computed from the clients to the
antennas only within the same group. In TDD systems, assuming channel reciprocity,
antenna grouping reduces the number of channel estimates to compute the channel
matrix H. In FDD systems where the CSI is fed back over the wireless link, antenna
grouping further yields reduction of CSI feedback overhead over the wireless links
between DIDO antennas and clients.
Multiple Access Techniques for the DIDO Uplink Channel
[00188]         In one embodiment of the invention, different multiple access
techniques are defined for the DIDO uplink channel. These techniques can be used
to feedback the CSI or transmit data streams from the clients to the DIDO antennas
over the uplink. Hereafter, we refer to feedback CSI and data streams as uplink
streams.
*            Multiple-input      multiple-output      (MIMO):   the   uplink   streams   are
transmitted from the client to the DIDO antennas via open-loop MIMO multiplexing
schemes. This method assumes all clients are time/frequency synchronized. In one
embodiment, synchronization among clients is achieved via training from the downlink
and all DIDO antennas are assumed to be locked to the same time/frequency
reference clock. Note that variations in delay spread at different clients may generate
jitter between the clocks of different clients that may affect the performance of MIMO
uplink scheme. After the clients send uplink streams via MIMO multiplexing schemes,
the receive DIDO antennas may use non-linear (i.e., maximum likelihood, ML) or linear
(i.e., zeros-forcing, minimum mean squared error) receivers to cancel co-channel
interference and demodulate the uplink streams individually.
e            Time division multiple access (TDMA): Different clients are assigned to
different time slots. Every client sends its uplink stream when its time slot is available.
*            Frequency division multiple access (FDMA):                Different clients are
assigned to different carrier frequencies. In multicarrier (OFDM) systems, subsets of
                                              42

tones are assigned to different clients that transmit the uplink streams simultaneously,
thereby reducing latency.
e            Code division multiple access (CDMA): Every client is assigned to a
different pseudo-random sequence and orthogonality across clients is achieved in the
code domain.
[00189]         In one embodiment of the invention, the clients are wireless devices
that transmit at much lower power than the DIDO antennas. In this case, the DIDO
BTS defines client sub-groups based on the uplink SNR information, such that
interference across sub-groups is minimized. Within every sub-group, the above
multiple access techniques are employed to create orthogonal channels in time,
frequency, space or code domains thereby avoiding uplink interference across
different clients.
[00190]         In another embodiment, the uplink multiple access techniques
described above are used in combination with antenna grouping methods presented
in the previous section to define different client groups within the DIDO cluster.
System and Method for Link Adaptation in DIDO Multicarrier Systems
[00191]         Link adaptation methods for DIDO systems exploiting time, frequency
and space selectivity of wireless channels were defined in U.S. Patent No.
7,636,381. Described below are embodiments of the invention for link adaptation in
multicarrier (OFDM) DIDO systems that exploit time/frequency selectivity of wireless
channels.
[00192]        We simulate Rayleigh fading channels according to the exponentially
decaying power delay profile (PDP) or Saleh-Valenzuela model in [9]. For simplicity,
we assume single-cluster channel with multipath PDP defined as
                                           Pn = e--ln                                (21)
where n=O,...,L-1, is the index of the channel tap, L is the number of channel taps and
#/ = 1/os    is the PDP exponent that is an indicator of the channel coherence
bandwidth, inverse proportional to the channel delay spread (oDs). Low values of
fl yield frequency-flat channels, whereas high values of #l produce frequency selective
channels. The PDP in (21) is normalized such that the total average power for all L
channel taps is unitary
                                          P4           .                             (22)
                                            43

Figure 27 depicts the amplitude of low frequency selective channels (assuming # =
1) over delay domain or instantaneous PDP (upper plot) and frequency domain (lower
plot) for DIDO 2x2 systems. The first subscript indicates the client, the second
subscript the transmit antenna. High frequency selective channels (with # = 0.1) are
shown in Figure 28.
[00193]        Next, we study the performance of DIDO precoding in frequency
selective channels. We compute the DIDO precoding weights via BD, assuming the
signal model in (1) that satisfies the condition in (2). We reformulate the DIDO
receive signal model in (5), with the condition in (2), as
                                       rk = HekSk  +  nk.                            (23)
[00194]        where Hek     HkWk is the effective channel matrix for user k. For DIDO
2x2, with a single antenna per client, the effective channel matrix reduces to one
value with a frequency response shown in Figure 29 and for channels characterized
by high frequency selectivity (e.g., with l = 0.1) in Figure 28. The continuous line in
Figure 29 refers to client 1, whereas the line with dots refers to client 2. Based on
the channel quality metric in Figure 29 we define time/frequency domain link
adaptation (LA) methods that dynamically adjust MCSs, depending on the changing
channel conditions.
[00195]        We begin by evaluating the performance of different MCSs in AWGN
and Rayleigh fading SISO channels. For simplicity, we assume no FEC coding, but
the following LA methods can be extended to systems that include FEC.
[00196]        Figure 30 shows the SER for different QAM schemes (i.e., 4-QAM, 16
QAM, 64-QAM). Without loss of generality, we assume target SER of 1% for
uncoded systems. The SNR thresholds to meet that target SER in AWGN channels
are 8dB, 15.5dB and 22dB for the three modulation schemes, respectively. In
Rayleigh fading channels, it is well known the SER performance of the above
modulation schemes is worse than AWGN [13] and the SNR thresholds are: 18.6dB,
27.3dB and 34.1dB, respectively. We observe that DIDO precoding transforms the
multi-user downlink channel into a set of parallel SISO links. Hence, the same SNR
thresholds as in Figure 30 for SISO systems hold for DIDO systems on a client-by
client basis. Moreover, if instantaneous LA is carried out, the thresholds in AWGN
channels are used.
                                            44

[00197]         The key idea of the proposed LA method for DIDO systems is to use
low MCS orders when the channel undergoes deep fades in the time domain or
frequency domain (depicted in Figure 28) to provide link-robustness. Contrarily,
when the channel is characterized by large gain, the LA method switches to higher
MCS orders to increase spectral efficiency. One contribution of the present
application compared to U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381 is to use the effective channel
matrix in (23) and in Figure 29 as a metric to enable adaptation.
[00198]         The general framework of the LA methods is depicted in Figure 31 and
defined as follows:
e            CSI estimation: At 3171 the DIDO BTS computes the CSI from all users.
Users may be equipped with single or multiple receive antennas.
0            DIDO precoding: At 3172, the BTS computes the DIDO precoding weights
for all users. In one embodiment, BD is used to compute these weights. The precoding
weights are calculated on a tone-by-tone basis.
e            Link-quality metric calculation: At 3173 the BTS computes the
frequency-domain link quality metrics. In OFDM systems, the metrics are calculated
from the CSI and DIDO precoding weights for every tone. In one embodiment of the
invention, the link-quality metric is the average SNR over all OFDM tones. We define
this method as LA1 (based on average SNR performance). In another embodiment,
the link quality metric is the frequency response of the effective channel in (23). We
define this method as LA2 (based on tone-by-tone performance to exploit frequency
diversity). If every client has single antenna, the frequency-domain effective channel
is depicted in Figure 29. If the clients have multiple receive antennas, the link-quality
metric is defined as the Frobenius norm of the effective channel matrix for every tone.
Alternatively, multiple link-quality metrics are defined for every client as the singular
values of the effective channel matrix in (23).
e            Bit-loading algorithm: At 3174, based on the link-quality metrics, the BTS
determines the MCSs for different clients and different OFDM tones. For LA1 method,
the same MCS is used for all clients and all OFDM tones based on the SNR thresholds
for Rayleigh fading channels in Figure 30. For LA2, different MCSs are assigned to
different OFDM tones to exploit channel frequency diversity.
*            Precoded data transmission: At 3175, the BTS transmits precoded data
streams from the DIDO distributed antennas to the clients using the MCSs derived
                                            45

from the bit-loading algorithm. One header is attached to the precoded data to
communicate the MCSs for different tones to the clients. For example, if eight MCSs
are available and the OFDM symbols are defined with N=64 tone, log2(8)*N=192 bits
are required to communicate the current MCS to every client. Assuming 4-QAM (2
bits/symbol spectral efficiency) is used to map those bits into symbols, only
192/2/N=1.5 OFDM symbols are required to map the MCS information. In another
embodiment, multiple subcarriers (or OFDM tones) are grouped into subbands and
the same MCS is assigned to all tones in the same subband to reduce the overhead
due to control information. Moreover, the MCS are adjusted based on temporal
variations of the channel gain (proportional to the coherence time). In fixed-wireless
channel (characterized by low Doppler effect) the MCS are recalculated every fraction
of the channel coherence time, thereby reducing the overhead required for control
information.
[00199]        Figure 32 shows the SER performance of the LA methods described
above. For comparison, the SER performance in Rayleigh fading channels is plotted
for each of the three QAM schemes used. The LA2 method adapts the MCSs to the
fluctuation of the effective channel in the frequency domain, thereby providing
1.8bps/Hz gain in spectral efficiency for low SNR (i.e., SNR=20dB) and 15dB gain in
SNR (for SNR>35dB) compared to LA1.
System and Method for DIDO Precoding Interpolation in Multicarrier Systems
[00200]        The computational complexity of DIDO systems is mostly localized at
the centralized processor or BTS. The most computationally expensive operation is
the calculation of the precoding weights for all clients from their CSI. When BD
precoding is employed, the BTS has to carry out as many singular value
decomposition (SVD) operations as the number of clients in the system. One way to
reduce complexity is through parallelized processing, where the SVD is computed on
a separate processor for every client.
[00201]        In multicarrier DIDO systems, each subcarrier undergoes flat-fading
channel and the SVD is carried out for every client over every subcarrier. Clearly the
complexity of the system increases linearly with the number of subcarriers. For
example, in OFDM systems with 1MHz signal bandwidth, the cyclic prefix (Lo) must
have at least eight channel taps (i.e., duration of 8 microseconds) to avoid
intersymbol interference in outdoor urban macrocell environments with large delay
spread [3]. The size   (NFFT) of the fast Fourier transform (FFT) used to generate the
                                             46

OFDM symbols is typically set to multiple of Lo to reduce loss of data rate. If
NFFT=64, the effective spectral efficiency of the system is limited by a factor       NFFT/(
NFFT+Lo)=89%. Larger values of NFFT yield higher spectral efficiency at the expense
of higher computational complexity at the DIDO precoder.
[00202]         One way to reduce computational complexity at the DIDO precoder is
to carry out the SVD operation over a subset of tones (that we call pilot tones) and
derive the precoding weights for the remaining tones via interpolation. Weight
interpolation is one source of error that results in inter-client interference. In one
embodiment, optimal weight interpolation techniques are employed to reduce inter
client interference, yielding improved error rate performance and lower
computational complexity in multicarrier systems. In DIDO systems with Mtransmit
antennas, U clients and N receive antennas per clients, the condition for the
precoding weights of the kh client (Wk) that guarantees zero interference to the other
clients u is derived from (2) as
                         HUWk = ONxN;        V u = 1, ..., U; with u # k                     (24)
where Hu are the channel matrices corresponding to the other DIDO clients in the
system.
[00203]          In one embodiment of the invention, the objective function of the weight
interpolation method is defined as
                                f(O)   --    =1||Hunk(0k)I1F                                 (25)
                                            u#k
where    Ok is the set of parameters to be optimized for user k, Wk(Ok) is the weight
interpolation matrix and ||-||F denotes the Frobenius norm of a matrix. The optimization
problem is formulated as
                                     Ok,opt     arg min f(O)                                 (26)
where    Ok  is the feasible set of the optimization problem and         0 k,opt is the optimal
solution.
[00204]         The objective function in (25) is defined for one OFDM tone. In another
embodiment of the invention, the objective function is defined as linear combination
of the Frobenius norm in (25) of the matrices for all the OFDM tones to be
interpolated. In another embodiment, the OFDM spectrum is divided into subsets of
tones and the optimal solution is given by
                                                47

                                     Ok,opt       mn max
                                             arg 00k0-k      f(n, O)                  (27)
                                                        n A
where n is the OFDM tone index and A is the subset of tones.
[00205]        The weight interpolation matrix   Wk(Ok)   in (25) is expressed as a
function of a set of parameters    Ok. Once the optimal set is determined according to
(26) or (27), the optimal weight matrix is computed. In one embodiment of the
invention, the weight interpolation matrix of given OFDM tone n is defined as linear
combination of the weight matrices of the pilot tones. One example of weight
interpolation function for beamforming systems with single client was defined in [11].
In DIDO multi-client systems we write the weight interpolation matrix as
                      Wk(lNo + n,  Ok) = (1 - cn) -W()    + cneSk - W( + 1)           (28)
where 0      I   (LO-1), Lo is the number of pilot tones and cn = (n - 1)/NO, with No =
NFFT/LO.   The weight matrix in (28) is then normalized such that         ||kIF = NM      to
guarantee unitary power transmission from every antenna. If N=1 (single receive
antenna per client), the matrix in (28) becomes a vector that is normalized with respect
to its norm. In one embodiment of the invention, the pilot tones are chosen uniformly
within the range of the OFDM tones. In another embodiment, the pilot tones are
adaptively chosen based on the CSI to minimize the interpolation error.
[00206]        We observe that one key difference of the system and method in [11]
against the one proposed in this patent application is the objective function. In
particular, the systems in [11] assumes multiple transmit antennas and single client,
so the related method is designed to maximize the product of the precoding weight
by the channel to maximize the receive SNR for the client. This method, however,
does not work in multi-client scenarios, since it yields inter-client interference due to
interpolation error. By contrast, our method is designed to minimize inter-client
interference thereby improving error rate performance to all clients.
[00207]        Figure 33 shows the entries of the matrix in (28) as a function of the
OFDM tone index for DIDO 2x2 systems with         NFFT    64 and Lo = 8. The channel
PDP is generated according to the model in (21) with l = 1 and the channel consists
of only eight channel taps. We observe that Lo must be chosen to be larger than the
number of channel taps. The solid lines in Figure 33 represent the ideal functions,
whereas the dotted lines are the interpolated ones. The interpolated weights match
the ideal ones for the pilot tones, according to the definition in (28). The weights
                                             48

computed over the remaining tones only approximate the ideal case due to
estimation error.
[00208]         One way to implement the weight interpolation method is via
exhaustive search over the feasible set   Ok in (26). To reduce the complexity of the
search, we quantize the feasible set into P values uniformly in the range [0,2rc].
Figure 34 shows the SER versus SNR for Lo = 8, M=Nt=2 transmit antennas and
variable number of P. As the number of quantization levels increases, the SER
performance improves. We observe the case P=10 approaches the performance of
P=1 00 for much lower computational complexity, due to reduced number of
searches.
[00209]         Figure 35 shows the SER performance of the interpolation method for
different DIDO orders and Lo = 16. We assume the number of clients is the same as
the number of transmit antennas and every client is equipped with single antenna.
As the number of clients increases the SER performance degrades due to increase
inter-client interference produced by weight interpolation errors.
[00210]         In another embodiment of the invention, weight interpolation functions
other than those in (28) are used. For example, linear prediction autoregressive
models [12] can be used to interpolate the weights across different OFDM tones,
based on estimates of the channel frequency correlation.
References
[00211]         [1] A. Forenza and S. G. Perlman, "System and method for distributed
antenna wireless communications", U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, filed
December 2, 2009, entitled "System and Method For Distributed Antenna Wireless
Communications"
[00212]         [2] FCC, "Evaluating compliance with FCC guidelines for human
exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields," OET Bulletin 65, Ed. 97-01, Aug.
1997
[00213]         [3] 3GPP, "Spatial Channel Model AHG (Combined ad-hoc from 3GPP
& 3GPP2)", SCM Text V6.0, April 22, 2003
[00214]         [4] 3GPP TR 25.912, "Feasibility Study for Evolved UTRA and
UTRAN", V9.0.0 (2009-10)
[00215]         [5] 3GPP TR 25.913, "Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and
Evolved UTRAN (E-UTRAN)", V8.0.0 (2009-01)
                                           49

[00216]          [6] W. C. Jakes, Microwave Mobile Communications, IEEE Press, 1974
[00217]          [7] K. K. Wong, et al., "A joint channel diagonalization for multiuser
MIMO antenna systems," IEEE Trans. Wireless Comm., vol. 2, pp. 773-786, July
2003;
[00218]          [8] P. Viswanath, et al., "Opportunistic beamforming using dump
antennas," IEEE Trans. On Inform. Theory, vol. 48, pp. 1277-1294, June 2002.
[00219]          [9] A. A. M. Saleh, et al., "A statistical model for indoor multipath
propagation," IEEE Jour. Select. Areas in Comm., vol. 195 SAC-5, no. 2, pp. 128
137, Feb. 1987.
[00220]          [10] A. Paulraj, et al., Introduction to Space-Time Wireless
Communications, Cambridge University Press, 40 West 20th Street, New York, NY,
USA, 2003.
[00221]          [11] J. Choi, et al., "Interpolation Based Transmit Beamforming for
MIMO-OFDM with Limited Feedback," IEEE Trans. on Signal Processing, vol. 53,
no. 11, pp. 4125-4135, Nov. 2005.
[00222]          [12] I. Wong, et al., "Long Range Channel Prediction for Adaptive
OF DM Systems," Proc. of the IEEE Asilomar Conf. on Signals, Systems, and
Computers, vol. 1,pp. 723-736, Pacific Grove, CA, USA, Nov. 7-10, 2004.
[00223]          [13] J. G. Proakis, Communication System Engineering, Prentice Hall,
1994
[00224]          [14] B.D.Van Veen, et al., "Beamforming: a versatile approach to
spatial filtering," IEEE ASSP Magazine, Apr. 1988.
[00225]          [15] R.G. Vaughan, "On optimum combining at the mobile," IEEE
Trans. On Vehic. Tech., vol37, n.4, pp.181-188, Nov. 1988
[00226]          [16] F.Qian, "Partially adaptive beamforming for correlated interference
rejection," IEEE Trans. On Sign. Proc., vol.43, n.2, pp.506-515, Feb.1995
[00227]          [17] H.Krim, et. al., "Two decades of array signal processing research,"
IEEE Signal Proc. Magazine, pp.67-94, July 1996
[00228]          [19] W.R. Remley, "Digital beamforming system", US Patent N.
4,003,016, Jan. 1977
[00229]          [18] R.J. Masak, "Beamforming/null-steering adaptive array', US Patent
N. 4,771,289, Sep.1988
                                                50

[00230]        [20] K.-B.Yu, et. al., "Adaptive digital beamforming architecture and
algorithm for nulling mainlobe and multiple sidelobe radar jammers while preserving
monopulse ratio angle estimation accuracy", US Patent 5,600,326, Feb.1997
[00231]        [21] H.Boche, et al., "Analysis of different precoding/decoding
strategies for multiuser beamforming", IEEE Vehic. Tech. Conf., vol.1, Apr. 2003
[00232]        [22] M.Schubert, et al., "Joint 'dirty paper' pre-coding and downlink
beamforming," vol.2, pp.536-540, Dec. 2002
[00233]        [23] H.Boche, et al." A general duality theory for uplink and downlink
beamformingc", vol.1, pp.87-91, Dec. 2002
[00234]        [24] K. K. Wong, R. D. Murch, and K. B. Letaief, "A joint channel
diagonalization for multiuser MIMO antenna systems," IEEE Trans. Wireless Comm.,
vol. 2, pp. 773-786, Jul 2003;
[00235]        [25] 0. H. Spencer, A. L. Swindlehurst, and M. Haardt, "Zero forcing
methods for downlink spatial multiplexing in multiuser MIMO channels," IEEE Trans.
Sig. Proc., vol. 52, pp. 461-471, Feb. 2004.
       11.        DISCLOSURE FROM RELATED APPLICATION SERIAL NO.
                                         12/917,257
[00236]        Described below are wireless radio frequency (RF) communication
systems and methods employing a plurality of distributed transmitting antennas
operating cooperatively to create wireless links to given users, while suppressing
interference to other users. Coordination across different transmitting antennas is
enabled via user-clustering. The user cluster is a subset of transmitting antennas
whose signal can be reliably detected by given user (i.e., received signal strength
above noise or interference level). Every user in the system defines its own user
cluter. The waveforms sent by the transmitting antennas within the same user-cluster
coherently combine to create RF energy at the target user's location and points of
zero RF interference at the location of any other user reachable by those antennas.
[00237]        Consider a system with Mtransmit antennas within one user-cluster
and K users reachable by those M antennas, with K           M. We assume the
transmitters are aware of the CSI (H E CKXM) between the Mtransmit antennas and K
users. For simplicity, every user is assumed to be equipped with a single antenna,
but the same method can be extended to multiple receive antennas per user.
                                             51

Consider the channel matrix H obtained by combining the channel vectors (hk E
Clxm) from the Mtransmit antennas to the Kusers as
                                                 -hl
                                           H =hk.
                                                 -hK
The precoding weights       (Wk  E CMx1) that create RF energy to user k and zero RF
energy to all other K-1 users are computed to satisfy the following condition
                                         NkWk   = OKx1
where Hk is the effective channel matrix of user k obtained by removing the k-th row
of matrix H and OKX1 is the vector with all zero entries
[00238]         In one embodiment, the wireless system is a DIDO system and user
clustering is employed to create a wireless communication link to the target user,
while pre-cancelling interference to any other user reachable by the antennas lying
within the user-cluster. In U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, a DIDO system is
described which includes:
 S0DIDO             clients: user terminals equipped with one or multiple antennas;
 S0DIDO             distributed antennas: transceiver stations operating cooperatively
to transmit precoded data streams to multiple users, thereby suppressing inter-user
interference;
*            DIDO base transceiver stations (BTS): centralized processor generating
precoded waveforms to the DIDO distributed antennas;
*            DIDO base station network (BSN): wired backhaul connecting the BTS to
the DIDO distributed antennas or to other BTSs.
The DIDO distributed antennas are grouped into different subsets depending on their
spatial distribution relative to the location of the BTSs or DIDO clients. We define three
types of clusters, as depicted in Figure 36:
*            Super-cluster 3640: is the set of DIDO distributed antennas connected to
one or multiple BTSs such that the round-trip latency between all BTSs and the
respective users is within the constraint of the DIDO precoding loop;
*            DIDO-cluster 3641: is the set of DIDO distributed antennas connected to
the same BTS. When the super-cluster contains only one BTS, its definition coincides
with the DIDO-cluster;
                                              52

e            User-cluster 3642: is the set of DIDO           distributed antennas that
cooperatively transmit precoded data to given user.
[00239]         For example, the BTSs are local hubs connected to other BTSs and to
the DIDO distributed antennas via the BSN. The BSN can be comprised of various
network technologies including, but not limited to, digital subscriber lines (DSL),
ADSL, VDSL [6], cable modems, fiber rings, T1 lines, hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC)
networks, and/or fixed wireless (e.g., WiFi). All BTSs within the same super-cluster
share information about DIDO precoding via the BSN such that the round-trip latency
is within the DIDO precoding loop.
[00240]         In Figure 37, the dots denote DIDO distributed antennas, the crosses
are the users and the dashed lines indicate the user-clusters for users Ul and U8,
respectively. The method described hereafter is designed to create a communication
link to the target user Ul while creating points of zero RF energy to any other user
(U2-U8) inside or outside the user-cluster.
[00241]         We proposed similar method in [5], where points of zero RF energy
were created to remove interference in the overlapping regions between DIDO
clusters. Extra antennas were required to transmit signal to the clients within the
DIDO cluster while suppressing inter-cluster interference. One embodiment of a
method proposed in the present application does not attempt to remove inter-DIDO
cluster interference; rather it assumes the cluster is bound to the client (i.e., user
cluster) and guarantees that no interference (or negligible interference) is generated
to any other client in that neighborhood.
[00242]         One idea associated with the proposed method is that users far
enough from the user-cluster are not affected by radiation from the transmit
antennas, due to large pathloss. Users close or within the user-cluster receive
interference-free signal due to precoding. Moreover, additional transmit antennas
can be added to the user-cluster (as shown in Figure 37) such that the condition K
M is satisfied.
[00243]         One embodiment of a method employing user clustering consists of the
following steps:
a.           Link-quality measurements:       the link quality between every DIDO
distributed antenna and every user is reported to the BTS. The link-quality metric
                                           53

consists of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) or signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio
(SIN R).
In one embodiment, the DIDO distributed antennas transmit training signals and the
users estimate the received signal quality based on that training. The training signals
are designed to be orthogonal in time, frequency or code domains such that the users
can distinguish across different transmitters. Alternatively, the DIDO antennas transmit
narrowband signals (i.e., single tone) at one particular frequency (i.e., a beacon
channel) and the users estimate the link-quality based on that beacon signal. One
threshold is defined as the minimum signal amplitude (or power) above the noise level
to demodulate data successfully as shown in Figure 38a. Any link-quality metric value
below this threshold is assumed to be zero. The link-quality metric is quantized over a
finite number of bits and fed back to the transmitter.
In a different embodiment, the training signals or beacons are sent from the users and
the link quality is estimated at the DIDO transmit antennas (as in Figure 38b),
assuming reciprocity between uplink (UL) and downlink (DL) pathloss. Note that
pathloss reciprocity is a realistic assumption in time division duplexing (TDD) systems
(with UL and DL channels at the same frequency) and frequency division duplexing
(FDD) systems when the UL and DL frequency bands are reatively close.
Information about the link-quality metrics is shared across different BTSs through the
BSN as depicted in Figure 37 such that all BTSs are aware of the link-quality between
every antenna/user couple across different DIDO clusters.
b.           Definition of user-clusters: the link-quality metrics of all wireless links in
the DIDO clusters are the entries to the link-quality matrix shared across all BTSs via
the BSN. One example of link-quality matrix for the scenario in Figure 37 is depicted
in Figure 39.
The link-quality matrix is used to define the user clusters. For example, Figure 39
shows the selection of the user cluster for user U8. The subset of transmitters with
non-zero link-quality metrics (i.e., active transmitters) to user U8 is first identified.
These transmitters populate the user-cluster for the user U8. Then the sub-matrix
containing non-zero entries from the transmitters within the user-cluster to the other
users is selected. Note that since the link-quality metrics are only used to select the
user cluster, they can be quantized with only two bits (i.e., to identify the state above
or below the thresholds in Figure 38) thereby reducing feedback overhead.
                                            54

[00244]        Another example is depicted in Figure 40 for user U1. In this case the
number of active transmitters is lower than the number of users in the sub-matrix,
thereby violating the condition K     M. Therefore, one or more columns are added to
the sub-matrix to satisfy that condition. If the number of transmitters exceeds the
number of users, the extra antennas can be used for diversity schemes (i.e., antenna
or eigenmode selection).
[00245]        Yet another example is shown in Figure 41 for user U4. We observe
that the sub-matrix can be obtained as combination of two sub-matrices.
c.          CSI report to the BTSs: Once the user clusters are selected, the CSI from
all transmitters within the user-cluster to every user reached by those transmitters is
made available to all BTSs. The CSI information is shared across all BTSs via the
BSN. In TDD systems, UL/DL channel reciprocity can be exploited to derive the CSI
from training over the UL channel. In FDD systems, feedback channels from all users
to the BTSs are required. To reduce the amount of feedback, only the CSI
corresponding to the non-zero entries of the link-quality matrix are fed back.
d.           DIDO precoding: Finally, DIDO precoding is applied to every CSI sub
matrix corresponding to different user clusters (as described, for example, in the
related U.S. Patent Applications).
In one embodiment, singular value decomposition (SVD) of the effective channel
matrix Hk is computed and the precoding weight         Wk  for user k is defined as the right
sigular vector corresponding to the null subspace of Ni. Alternatively, if M>K and the
SVD decomposes the effective channel matrix as           k  -- Vk:kUkH, the DIDO precoding
weight for user k is given by
                                  Wk     U0   (U 0 H. hkT)
where U0 is the matrix with columns being the singular vectors of the null subspace of
From basic linear algebra considerations, we observe that the right singular vector in
the null subspace of the matrix H is equal to the eigenvetor of C corresponding to the
zero eigenvalue
                        C= jHj     = (V2UH)H (V2UH) =U             2 UH
where the effective channel matrix is decomposed as H =               V2UH,   according to the
SVD. Then, one alternative to computing the SVD of         Hk   is to calculate the eigenvalue
decomposition of C. There are several methods to compute eigenvalue decomposition
                                             55

such as the power method. Since we are only interested to the eigenvector
corresponding to the null subspace of C, we use the inverse power method described
by the iteration
                                             (C - AI)- 1 ui
                                  u     =+1||(C - Al)- 1 ui|
where the vector (ui) at the first iteration is a random vector.
Given that the eigenvalue (A) of the null subspace is known (i.e., zero) the inverse
power method requires only one iteration to converge, thereby reducing computational
complexity. Then, we write the precoding weight vector as
                                         w = C-1 Ui
where u1 is the vector with real entries equal to 1 (i.e., the precoding weight vector is
the sum of the columns of C- 1 ).
The DIDO precoding calculation requires one matrix inversion. There are several
numerical solutions to reduce the complexity of matrix inversions such as the
Strassen's algorithm [1] or the Coppersmith-Winograd's algorithm [2,3]. Since C is
Hermitian matrix by definition, an alternative solution is to decompose C in its real and
imaginary components and compute matrix inversion of a real matrix, according to the
method in [4, Section 11.4].
[00246]        Another feature of the proposed method and system is its
reconfigurability. As the client moves across different DIDO clusters as in Figure 42,
the user-cluster follows its moves. In other words, the subset of transmit antennas is
constantly updated as the client changes its position and the effective channel matrix
(and corresponding precoding weights) are recomputed.
[00247]        The method proposed herein works within the super-cluster in Figure
36, since the links between the BTSs via the BSN must be low-latency. To suppress
interference in the overlapping regions of different super-clusters, it is possible to use
our method in [5] that uses extra antennas to create points of zero RF energy in the
interfering regions between DIDO clusters.
[00248]        It should be noted that the terms "user" and "client" are used
interchangeably herein.
References
[00249]        [1] S. Robinson, "Toward an Optimal Algorithm for Matrix
Multiplication", SIAM News, Volume 38, Number 9, November 2005.
                                               56

[00250]        [2] D. Coppersmith and S. Winograd, "Matrix Multiplication via
Arithmetic Progression", J. Symb. Comp. vol.9, p.251-280, 1990.
[00251]        [3] H. Cohn, R. Kleinberg, B. Szegedy, C. Umans, "Group-theoretic
Algorithms for Matrix Multiplication", p. 379-388, Nov. 2005.
[00252]        [4] W.H. Press, S.A. Teukolsky, W. T. Vetterling, B.P. Flannery
"NUMERICAL RECIPES IN C: THE ART OF SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING",
Cambridge University Press, 1992.
[00253]        [5] A. Forenza and S.G.Perlman, "INTERFERENCE MANAGEMENT,
HANDOFF, POWER CONTROL AND LINK ADAPTATION IN DISTRIBUTED-INPUT DISTRIBUTED
OUTPUT (DIDO) COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS", Patent Application Serial No. 12/802,988,
filed June 16, 2010.
[00254]        [6] Per-Erik Eriksson and Bj6rn Odenhammar, "VDSL2: Next important
broadband technology", Ericsson Review No. 1, 2006.
                                            57

Ill.        SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO EXPLOIT AREAS OF COHERENCE IN
            WIRELESS SYSTEMS
[00255]        The capacity of multiple antenna systems (MAS) in practical
propagation environments is a function of the spatial diversity available over the
wireless link. Spatial diversity is determined by the distribution of scattering objects
in the wireless channel as well as the geometry of transmit and receive antenna
arrays.
[00256]        One popular model for MAS channels is the so called clustered
channel model, that defines groups of scatterers as clusters located around the
transmitters and receivers. In general, the more clusters and the larger their angular
spread, the higher spatial diversity and capacity achievable over wireless links.
Clustered channel models have been validated through practical measurements [1
2] and variations of those models have been adopted by different indoor (i.e., IEEE
802.11 n Technical Group [3] for WLAN) and outdoor (3GPP Technical Specification
Group for 3G cellular systems [4]) wireless standards.
[00257]        Other factors that determine the spatial diversity in wireless channels
are the characteristics of the antenna arrays, including: antenna element spacing [5
7], number of antennas [8-9], array aperture [10-11], array geometry [5,12,13],
polarization and antenna pattern [14-28].
[00258]        A unified model describing the effects of antenna array design as well
as the characteristics of the propagation channel on the spatial diversity (or degrees
of freedom) of wireless links was presented in [29]. The received signal model in [29]
is given by
                               y(q)   f C(q, p)x(p)dp + z(q)
where x(p) E C3 is the polarized vector describing the transmit signal, p, q E R3 are
the polarized vector positions describing the transmit and receive arrays, respectively,
and C(-,-) E C3' 3 is the matrix describing the system response between transmit and
receive vector positions given by
                        C(q, p) =    Ar (q, nfi)H (i, fi)At(fi, p)didini
where At(-,-),Ar(-,-) E C31 3 are the transmit and receive array responses respectively
and H(ii, fi) E C3'  3 is the channel response matrix with entries being the complex
                                              58

gains between transmit direction R and receive direction ii. In DIDO systems, user
devices may have single or multiple antennas. For the sake of simplicity, we assume
single antenna receivers with ideal isotropic patterns and rewrite the system response
matrix as
                                C(q, p)    f H(q, i)A(i, p)d R
where only the transmit antenna pattern A(fi, p) is considered.
[00259]          From the Maxwell equations and the far-field term of the Green
function, the array response can be approximated as [29]
                             A(i, p) =(I           -  nnjH) a(fip)
with pEP, P is the space that defines the antenna array and where
                                  a(fi,p) = exp(-j2r     Hfip)
with (fi, p)E nxP. For unpolarized antennas, studying the array response is equivalent
to study the integral kernel above. Hereafter, we show closed for expressions of the
integral kernels for different types of arrays.
Unpolarized Linear Arrays
[00260]          For unpolarized linear arrays of length L (normalized by the
wavelength) and antenna elements oriented along the z-axis and centered at the
origin, the integral kernel is given by [29]
                             a(cos 0 ,pz= exp(-j2Tr pz cos 0).
[00261]          Expanding the above equation into a series of shifted dyads, we obtain
that the sinc function have resolution of 1/L and the dimension of the array-limited
and approximately wavevector-limited subspace (i.e., degrees of freedom) is
                                          DF - L Inel
where n=       {cos 0: 0E0}. We observe that for broadside arrays Ie| = 101 whereas for
endfire IG l ~ 1012 /2.
Unpolarized Spherical Arrays
[00262]         The integral kernel for a spherical array of radius R (normalized by the
wavelength) is given by [29]
              a(i, p) = exp{-j2TR [sin 0 sin 0' cos(# - 0') + cos 0 cos 0'] }.
[00263]          Decomposing the above function with sum of spherical Bessel
functions of the first kind we obtain the resolution of spherical arrays is 1/(Tr R2 ) and
                                              59

the degrees of freedom are given by
                                   DF  = A|il| = rR2|Jil
[00264]         where A is the area of the spherical array and
|il| c [0,Tr) x[0,2ri).
Areas of Coherence in Wireless Channels
[00265]         The relation between the resolution of spherical arrays and their area A
is depicted in Figure 43. The sphere in the middle is the spherical array of area A.
The projection of the channel clusters on the unit sphere defines different scattering
regions of size proportional to the angular spread of the clusters. The area of size
1/A within each cluster, which we call "area of coherence", denotes the projection of
the basis functions of the radiated field of the array and defines the resolution of the
array in the wavevector domain.
[00266]         Comparing Figure 43 with Figure 44, we observe that the size of the
area of coherence decreases as the inverse of the size of the array. In fact, larger
arrays can focus energy into smaller areas, yielding larger number of degrees of
freedom DF. Note that to total number of degrees of freedom depends also on the
angular spread of the cluster, as shown in the definition above.
[00267]         Figure 45 depicts another example where the array size covers even
larger area than Figure 44, yielding additional degrees of freedom. In DIDO
systems, the array aperture can be approximated by the total area covered by all
DIDO transmitters (assuming antennas are spaced fractions of wavelength apart).
Then Figure 45 shows that DIDO systems can achieve increasing numbers of
degrees of freedom by distributing antennas in space, thereby reducing the size of
the areas of coherence. Note that these figures are generated assuming ideal
spherical arrays. In practical scenarios, DIDO antennas spread random across wide
areas and the resulting shape of the areas of coherence may not be as regular as in
the figures.
[00268]         Figure 46 shows that, as the array size increases, more clusters are
included within the wireless channel as radio waves are scatterered by increasing
number of objects between DIDO transmitters. Hence, it is possible to excite an
increasing number of basis functions (that span the radiated field), yielding additional
degrees of freedom, in agreement with the definition above.
[00269]         The multi-user (MU) multiple antenna systems (MAS) described in this
patent application exploit the area of coherence of wireless channels to create
                                            60

multiple simultaneous independent non-interfering data streams to different users.
For given channel conditions and user distribution, the basis functions of the radiated
field are selected to create independent and simultaneous wireless links to different
users in such a way that every user experiences interference-free links. As the MU
MAS is aware of the channel between every transmitter and every user, the
precoding transmission is adjusted based on that information to create separate
areas of coherence to different users.
[00270]        In one embodiment of the invention, the MU-MAS employs non-linear
precoding, such as dirty-paper coding (DPC) [30-31] or Tomlinson-Harashima (TH)
[32-33] precoding. In another embodiment of the invention, the MU-MAS employs
non-linear precoding, such as block diagonalization (8D) as in our previous patent
applications [0003-0009] or zero-forcing beamforming (ZF-BF) [34].
[00271]        To enable precoding, the MU-MAS requires knowledge of the channel
state information (CSI). The CSI is made available to the MU-MAS via a feedback
channel or estimated over the uplink channel, assuming uplink/downlink channel
reciprocity is possible in time division duplex (TDD) systems. One way to reduce the
amount of feedback required for CSI, is to use limited feedback techniques [35-37].
In one embodiment, the MU-MAS uses limited feedback techniques to reduce the
CSI overhead of the control channel. Codebook design is critical in limited feedback
techniques. One embodiment defines the codebook from the basis functions that
span the radiated field of the transmit array.
[00272]        As the users move in space or the propagation environment changes
over time due to mobile objects (such as people or cars), the areas of coherence
change their locations and shape. This is due to the well known Doppler effect in
wireless communications. The MU-MAS described in this patent application adjusts
the precoding to adapt the areas of coherence constantly for every user as the
environment changes due to Doppler effects. This adaptation of the areas of
coherence is such to create simultaneous non-interfering channels to different users.
[00273]        Another embodiment of the invention adaptively selects a subset of
antennas of the MU-MAS system to create areas of coherence of different sizes. For
example, if the users are sparsely distributed in space (i.e., rural area or times of the
day with low usage of wireless resources), only a small subset of antennas is
selected and the size of the area of coherence are large relative to the array size as
in Figure 43. Alternatively, in densely populated areas (i.e., urban areas or time of
                                            61

the day with peak usage of wireless services) more antennas are selected to create
small areas of coherence for users in direct vicinity of each other.
[00274]         In one embodiment of the invention, the MU-MAS is a DIDO system as
described in previous patent applications [0003-0009]. The DIDO system uses linear
or non-linear precoding and/or limited feedback techniques to create area of
coherence to different users.
Numerical Results
[00275]         We begin by computing the number of degrees of freedom in
conventional multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems as a function of the array
size. We consider unpolarized linear arrays and two types of channel models: indoor
as in the IEEE 802.11 n standard for WiFi systems and outdoor as in the 3GPP-LTE
standard for cellular systems. The indoor channel mode in [3] defines the number of
clusters in the range [2, 6] and angular spread in the range [150, 400]. The outdoor
channel model for urban micro defines about 6 clusters and the angular spread at
the base station of about 200.
[00276]         Figure 47 shows the degrees of freedom of MIMO systems in practical
indoor and outdoor propagation scenarios. For example, considering linear arrays
with ten antennas spaced one wavelength apart, the maximum degrees of freedom
(or number of spatial channels) available over the wireless link is limited to about 3
for outdoor scenarios and 7 for indoor. Of course, indoor channels provide more
degrees of freedom due to the larger angular spread.
[00277]         Next we compute the degrees of freedom in DIDO systems. We
consider the case where the antennas distributed over 3D space, such as downtown
urban scenarios where DIDO access points may be distributed on different floors of
adjacent building. As such, we model the DIDO transmit antennas (all connected to
each other via fiber or DSL backbone) as a spherical array. Also, we assume the
clusters are uniformly distributed across the solid angle.
[00278]         Figure 48 shows the degrees of freedom in DIDO systems as a
function of the array diameter. We observe that for a diameter equal to ten
wavelengths, about 1000 degrees of freedom are available in the DIDO system. In
theory, it is possible to create up to 1000 non-interfering channels to the users. The
increased spatial diversity due to distributed antennas in space is the key to the
multiplexing gain provided by DIDO over conventional MIMO systems.
[00279]         As a comparison, we show the degrees of freedom achievable in
                                            62

suburban environments with DIDO systems. We assume the clusters are distributed
within the elevation angles [a, ir - a], and define the solid angle for the clusters as
|i| = 4Tr cos a. For example, in suburban scenarios with two-story buildings, the
elevation angle of the scatterers can be a = 600. In that case, the number of degrees
of freedom as a function of the wavelength is shown in Figure 48.
IV.         SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR PLANNED EVOLUTION AND
OBSOLESCENCE OF MULTIUSER SPECTRUM
[00280]        The growing demand for high-speed wireless services and the
increasing number of cellular telephone subscribers has produced a radical
technology revolution in the wireless industry over the past three decades from initial
analog voice services (AMPS [1-2]) to standards that support digital voice (GSM [3
4], IS-95 CDMA [5]), data traffic (EDGE [6], EV-DO [7]) and Internet browsing (WiFi
[8-9], WiMAX [10-11], 3G [12-13], 4G [14-15]). This wireless technology growth
throughout the years has been enabled by two major efforts:
i)      The federal communications commission (FCC) [16] has been allocating new
spectrum to support new emerging standards. For example, in the first generation
AMPS systems the number of channels allocated by the FCC grew from the initial 333
in 1983 to 416 in the late 1980s to support the increasing number of cellular clients.
More recently, the commercialization of technologies like Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and ZigBee
has been possible with the use of the unlicensed ISM band allocated by the FCC back
in 1985 [17].
ii)     The wireless industry has been producing new technologies that utilize the
limited available spectrum more efficiently to support higher data rate links and
increased numbers of subscribers. One big revolution in the wireless world was the
migration from the analog AMPS systems to digital D-AMPS and GSM in the 1990s,
that enabled much higher call volume for a given frequency band due to improved
spectral efficiency. Another radical shift was produced in the early 2000s by spatial
processing techniques such as multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO), yielding 4x
improvement in data rate over previous wireless networks and adopted by different
standards (i.e., IEEE 802.11 n for Wi-Fi, IEEE 802.16 for WiMAX, 3GPP for 4G-LTE).
[00281]        Despite efforts to provide solutions for high-speed wireless
connectivity, the wireless industry is facing new challenges: to offer high-definition
                                             63

(HD) video streaming to satisfy the growing demand for services like gaming and to
provide wireless coverage everywhere (including rural areas, where building the
wireline backbone is costly and impractical). Currently, the most advanced wireless
standard systems (i.e., 4G-LTE) cannot provide data rate requirements and latency
constraints to support HD streaming services, particularly when the network is
overloaded with a high volume of concurrent links. Once again, the main drawbacks
have been the limited spectrum availability and lack of spectrally efficient
technologies that can truly enhance data rate and provide complete coverage.
[00282]          A new technology has emerged in recent years called distributed-input
distributed-output (DIDO) [18-21] and described in our previous patent applications
[0002-0009]. DIDO technology promises orders of magnitude increase in spectral
efficiency, making HD wireless streaming services possible in overloaded networks.
[00283]          At the same time, the US government has been addressing the issue
of spectrum scarcity by launching a plan that will free 500MHz of spectrum over the
next 10 years. This plan was released on June     2 8 th, 2010 with the goal of allowing
new emerging wireless technologies to operate in the new frequency bands and
providing high-speed wireless coverage in urban and rural areas [22]. As part of this
plan, on September      2 3rd, 2010 the FCC opened up about 200MHz of the VHF and
UHF spectrum for unlicensed use called "white spaces" [23]. One restriction to
operate in those frequency bands is that harmful interference must not be created
with existing wireless microphone devices operating in the same band. As such, on
July  2 2 nd, 2011 the IEEE 802.22 working group finalized the standard for a new
wireless system employing cognitive radio technology (or spectrum sensing) with the
key feature of dynamically monitoring the spectrum and operating in the available
bands, thereby avoiding harmful interference with coexisting wireless devices [24].
Only recently has there been debates to allocate part of the white spaces to licensed
use and open it up to spectrum auction [25].
[00284]          The coexistence of unlicensed devices within the same frequency
bands and spectrum contention for unlicensed versus licensed use have been two
major issues for FCC spectrum allocation plans throughout the years. For example,
in white spaces, coexistence between wireless microphones and wireless
communications devices has been enabled via cognitive radio technology. Cognitive
radio, however, can provide only a fraction of the spectral efficiency of other
technologies using spatial processing like DIDO. Similarly, the performance of Wi-Fi
                                             64

systems have been degrading significantly over the past decade due to increasing
number of access points and the use of Bluetooth/ZigBee devices that operate in the
same unlicensed ISM band and generate uncontrolled interference. One
shortcoming of the unlicensed spectrum is unregulated use of RF devices that will
continue to pollute the spectrum for years to come. RF pollution also prevents the
unlicensed spectrum from being used for future licensed operations, thereby limiting
important market opportunities for wireless broadband commercial services and
spectrum auctions.
[00285]       We propose a new system and methods that allow dynamic allocation
of the wireless spectrum to enable coexistence and evolution of different services
and standards. One embodiment of our method dynamically assigns entitlements to
RF transceivers to operate in certain parts of the spectrum and enables
obsolescence of the same RF devices to provide:
i)      Spectrum reconfigurability to enable new types of wireless operations (i.e.,
licensed vs. unlicensed) and/or meet new RF power emission limits. This feature
allows spectrum auctions whenever is necessary, without need to plan in advance for
use of licensed versus unlicensed spectrum. It also allows transmit power levels to be
adjusted to meet new power emission levels enforced by the FCC.
ii)     Coexistence of different technologies operating in the same band (i.e., white
spaces and wireless microphones, WiFi and Bluetooth/ZigBee) such that the band can
be dynamically reallocated as new technologies are created, while avoiding
interference with existing technologies.
iii)    Seamless evolution of wireless infrastructure as systems migrate to more
advanced technologies that can offer higher spectral efficiency, better coverage and
improved performance to support new types of services demanding higher QoS (i.e.,
HD video streaming).
[00286]       Hereafter, we describe a system and method for planned evolution and
obsolescence of a multiuser spectrum. One embodiment of the system consists of
one or multiple centralized processors (CP) 4901-4904 and one or multiple
distributed nodes (DN) 4911-4913 that communicate via wireline or wireless
connections as depicted in Figure 49. For example, in the context of 4G-LTE
networks [26], the centralized processor is the access core gateway (ACGW)
connected to several Node B transceivers. In the context of Wi-Fi, the centralized
processor is the internet service provider (ISP) and the distributed nodes are Wi-Fi
                                           65

access points connected to the ISP via modems or direct connection to cable or
DSL. In another embodiment of the invention, the system is a distributed-input
distributed-output (DIDO) system [0002-0009] with one centralized processor (or
BTS) and distributed nodes being the DIDO access points (or DIDO distributed
antennas connected to the BTS via the BSN).
[00287]         The DNs 4911-4913 communicate with the CPs 4901-4904. The
information exchanged from the DNs to the CP is used to dynamically adjust the
configuration of the nodes to the evolving design of the network architecture. In one
embodiment, the DNs 4911-4913 share their identification number with the CP. The
CP store the identification numbers of all DNs connected through the network into
lookup tables or shared database. Those lookup tables or database can be shared
with other CPs and that information is synchronized such that all CPs have always
access to the most up to date information about all DNs on the network.
[00288]         For example, the FCC may decide to allocate a certain portion of the
spectrum to unlicensed use and the proposed system may be designed to operate
within that spectrum. Due to scarcity of spectrum, the FCC may subsequently need
to allocate part of that spectrum to licensed use for commercial carriers (i.e., AT&T,
Verizon, or Sprint), defense, or public safety. In conventional wireless systems, this
coexistence would not be possible, since existing wireless devices operating in the
unlicensed band would create harmful interference to the licensed RF transceivers.
In our proposed system, the distributed nodes exchange control information with the
CPs 4901-4903 to adapt their RF transmission to the evolving band plan. In one
embodiment, the DNs 4911-4913 were originally designed to operate over different
frequency bands within the available spectrum. As the FCC allocates one or multiple
portions of that spectrum to licensed operation, the CPs exchange control
information with the unlicensed DNs and reconfigure them to shut down the
frequency bands for licensed use, such that the unlicensed DNs do not interfere with
the licensed DNs. This scenario is depicted in Figure 50 where the unlicensed
nodes (e.g., 5002) are indicated with solid circles and the licensed nodes with empty
circles (e.g., 5001). In another embodiment, the whole spectrum can be allocated to
the new licensed service and the control information is used by the CPs to shut down
all unlicensed DNs to avoid interference with the licensed DNs. This scenario is
shown in Figure 51 where the obsolete unlicensed nodes are covered with a cross.
[00289]         By way of another example, it may be necessary to restrict power
                                            66

emissions for certain devices operating at given frequency band to meet the FCC
exposure limits [27]. For instance, the wireless system may originally be designed
for fixed wireless links with the DNs 4911-4913 connected to outdoor rooftop
transceiver antennas. Subsequently, the same system may be updated to support
DNs with indoor portable antennas to offer better indoor coverage. The FCC
exposure limits of portable devices are more restrictive than rooftop transmitters, due
to possibly closer proximity to the human body. In this case, the old DNs designed
for outdoor applications can be re-used for indoor applications as long as the
transmit power setting is adjusted. In one embodiment of the invention the DNs are
designed with predefined sets of transmit power levels and the CPs 4901-4903 send
control information to the DNs 4911-4913 to select new power levels as the system
is upgraded, thereby meeting the FCC exposure limits. In another embodiment, the
DNs are manufactured with only one power emission setting and those DNs
exceeding the new power emission levels are shut down remotely by the CP.
[00290]        In one embodiment, the CPs 4901-4903 monitor periodically all DNs
4911-4913 in the network to define their entitlement to operate as RF transceivers
according to a certain standard. Those DNs that are not up to date can be marked as
obsolete and removed from the network. For example, the DNs that operate within
the current power limit and frequency band are kept active in the network, and all the
others are shut down. Note that the DN parameters controlled by the CP are not
limited to power emission and frequency band; it can be any parameter that defines
the wireless link between the DN and the client devices.
[00291]        In another embodiment of the invention, the DNs 4911-4913 can be
reconfigured to enable the coexistence of different standard systems within the same
spectrum. For example, the power emission, frequency band or other configuration
parameters of certain DNs operating in the context of WLAN can be adjusted to
accommodate the adoption of new DNs designed for WPAN applications, while
avoiding harmful interference.
[00292]        As new wireless standards are developed to enhance data rate and
coverage in the wireless network, the DNs 4911-4913 can be updated to support
those standards. In one embodiment, the DNs are software defined radios (SDR)
equipped with programmable computational capability such as such as FPGA, DSP,
CPU, GPU and/or GPGPU that run algorithms for baseband signal processing. If the
standard is upgraded, new baseband algorithms can be remotely uploaded from the
                                           67

CP to the DNs to reflect the new standard. For example, in one embodiment the first
standard is CDMA-based and subsequently it is replaced by OFDM technology to
support different types of systems. Similarly, the sample rate, power and other
parameters can be updated remotely to the DNs. This SDR feature of the DNs
allows for continuous upgrades of the network as new technologies are developed to
improve overall system performance.
[00293]        In another embodiment, the system described herein is a cloud
wireless system consisting of multiple CPs, distributed nodes and a network
interconnecting the CPs to the DNs. Figure 52 shows one example of cloud wireless
system where the nodes identified with solid circles (e.g., 5203) communicate to CP
5206, the nodes identified with empty circles communicate to CP 5205 and the CPs
5205-5206 communicate between each other all through the network 5201. In one
embodiment of the invention, the cloud wireless system is a DIDO system and the
DNs are connected to the CP and exchange information to reconfigure periodically
or instantly system parameters, and dynamically adjust to the changing conditions of
the wireless architecture. In the DIDO system, the CP is the DIDO BTS, the
distributed nodes are the DIDO distributed antennas, the network is the BSN and
multiple BTSs are interconnected with each other via the DIDO centralized processor
as described in our previous patent applications [0002-0009].
[00294]        All DNs 5202-5203 within the cloud wireless system can be grouped in
different sets. These sets of DNs can simultaneously create non-interfering wireless
links to the multitude of client devices, while each set supporting a different multiple
access techniques (e.g., TDMA, FDMA, CDMA, OFDMA and/or SDMA), different
modulations (e.g., QAM, OFDM) and/or coding schemes (e.g., convolutional coding,
LDPC, turbo codes). Similarly, every client may be served with different multiple
access techniques and/or different modulation/coding schemes. Based on the active
clients in the system and the standard they adopt for their wireless links, the CPs
5205-5206 dynamically select the subset of DNs that can support those standards
and that are within range of the client devices.
References
[00295]        [1] Wikipedia, "Advanced Mobile Phone System"
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced Mobile Phone System
[00296]        [2] AT&T, "1946: First Mobile Telephone Call"
http://www.corp.att.com/attlabs/reputation/timeline/46mobile.html
                                            68

[00297]         [3] GSMA, "GSM technology"
http://www.qsmworld.com/technoloqv/index.htm
[00298]         [4] ETSI, "Mobile technologies GSM"
http://www.etsi.orq/WebSite/Technologies/qsm.aspx
[00299]         [5] Wikipedia, "IS-95"
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IS-95
[00300]         [6] Ericsson, "The evolution of EDGE"
http://www.ericsson.com/res/docs/whitepoapers/evolution to edq-e.pdf
[00301]         [7] Q. Bi (2004-03). "A Forward Link Performance Study of the 1xEV
DO Rel. 0 System Using Field Measurements and Simulations" (PDF). Lucent
Technologies.
http://www.cdq.org/resources/white rapers/files/Lucent%201xEV
DO%20Rev%200%20Mar%2004.pdf
[00302]         [8] Wi-Fi alliance, http://www.wi-fi.orq/
[00303]         [9] Wi-Fi alliance, "Wi-Fi certified makes it Wi-Fi"
http://www.wi-fi.orq/files/WFA Certification Overview WP en.pdf
[00304]         [10] WiMAX forum, http://www.wimaxforum.orq/
[00305]         [11] C. Eklund, R. B. Marks, K. L. Stanwood and S. Wang, "IEEE
Standard 802.16: A Technical Overview of the WirelessMANTMAir Interface for
Broadband Wireless Access"
http://ieee802.orq/1 6/docs/02/C80216-02 05.pdf
[00306]         [12] 3GPP, "UMTS", http://www.3qpp.ora/article/umts
[00307]         [13] H. Ekstr6m, A. Furusk~r, J. Karlsson, M. Meyer, S. Parkvall, J.
Torsner, and M. Wahlqvist "Technical Solutions for the 3G Long-Term Evolution",
IEEE Communications Magazine, pp.38-45, Mar. 2006
[00308]         [14] 3GPP, "LTE", http://www.3qp.orq/LTE
[00309]         [15] Motorola, "Long Term Evolution (LTE): A Technical Overview",
http://business.motorola.com/experiencelte/pdf/LTETechnicalOverview.pdf
[00310]         [16] Federal Communications Commission, "Authorization of Spread
Spectrum Systems Under Parts 15 and 90 of the FCC Rules and Regulations", June
1985.
[00311]         [17] ITU, "ISM band" http://www.itu.int/ITU
R/terrestrial/faq/index.html#qO1 3
[00312]         [18] S. Perlman and A. Forenza "Distributed-input distributed-output
                                              69

(DIDO) wireless technology: a new approach to multiuser wireless", Aug. 2011
http://www.rearden.com/DIDO/DIDO White Paper 110727.pdf
[00313]         [19] Bloomberg Businessweek, "Steve Perlman's Wireless Fix", July
27, 2011
http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/the-edison-of-silicon-valley-0727201 1.html
[00314]         [20] Wired, "Has OnLive's Steve Perlman Discovered Holy Grail of
Wireless?", June 30, 2011
httip://www.wired.com/ep icenter/201 1/06/perlman-holy-qrail-wireless/
[00315]         [21] The Wall Street Journal "Silicon Valley Inventor's Radical Rewrite
of Wireless", July 28, 2011
httrp://blogs.wsi .com/diq its/20 11/07/28/silicon-valley-inventors-radical-rewrite-of
wireless/
[00316]         [22] The White House, "Presidential Memorandum: Unleashing the
Wireless Broadband Revolution", June 28, 2010
http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-ipress-office/rresidential-memorandum-unleashing
wireless-broadband-revolution
[00317]         [23] FCC, "Open commission meeting", Sept.        2 3rd, 2010
http://reboot.fcc.gov/open-meetings/201 0/september
[00318]         [24] IEEE 802.22, "IEEE 802.22 Working Group on Wireless Regional
Area Networks", httip://www.ieee802.orq/22/
[00319]         [25] "A bill",1 12th congress, 1st session, July 12, 2011
http://republicans.enerqycommerce.house.gov/Media/file/Hearings/Telecom/07151 1/
Discussion Draft.pjdf
[00320]         [26] H. Ekstr6m, A. Furuskar, J. Karlsson, M. Meyer, S. Parkvall, J.
Torsner, and M. Wahlqvist "Technical Solutions for the 3G Long-Term Evolution",
IEEE Communications Magazine, pp.38-45, Mar. 2006
[00321]         [27] FCC, "Evaluating compliance with FCC guidelines for human
exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields," OET Bulletin 65, Edition 97-01,
Aug. 1997
[00322]         Embodiments of the invention may include various steps as set forth
above. The steps may be embodied in machine-executable instructions which cause
a general-purpose or special-purpose processor to perform certain steps. For
example, the various components within the Base Stations/APs and Client Devices
described above may be implemented as software executed on a general purpose or
                                               70

special purpose processor. To avoid obscuring the pertinent aspects of the
invention, various well known personal computer components such as computer
memory, hard drive, input devices, etc., have been left out of the figures.
[00323]         Alternatively, in one embodiment, the various functional modules
illustrated herein and the associated steps may be performed by specific hardware
components that contain hardwired logic for performing the steps, such as an
application-specific integrated circuit ("ASIC") or by any combination of programmed
computer components and custom hardware components.
[00324]         In one embodiment, certain modules such as the Coding, Modulation
and Signal Processing Logic 903 described above may be implemented on a
programmable digital signal processor ("DSP") (or group of DSPs) such as a DSP
using a Texas Instruments' TMS320x architecture (e.g., a TMS320C6000,
TMS320C5000,       ... etc). The DSP in this embodiment may be embedded within an
add-on card to a personal computer such as, for example, a PCI card. Of course, a
variety of different DSP architectures may be used while still complying with the
underlying principles of the invention.
[00325]         Elements of the present invention may also be provided as a machine
readable medium for storing the machine-executable instructions. The machine
readable medium may include, but is not limited to, flash memory, optical disks, CD
ROMs, DVD ROMs, RAMs, EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards,
propagation media or other type of machine-readable media suitable for storing
electronic instructions. For example, the present invention may be downloaded as a
computer program which may be transferred from a remote computer (e.g., a server)
to a requesting computer (e.g., a client) by way of data signals embodied in a carrier
wave or other propagation medium via a communication link (e.g., a modem or
network connection).
[00326]         Throughout the foregoing description, for the purposes of explanation,
numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding
of the present system and method. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the
art that the system and method may be practiced without some of these specific
details. Accordingly, the scope and spirit of the present invention should be judged
in terms of the claims which follow.
[00327]         Moreover, throughout the foregoing description, numerous publications
were cited to provide a more thorough understanding of the present invention. All of
                                            71

these cited references are incorporated into the present application by reference.
References
[00328]       [1] A. A. M. Saleh and R. A. Valenzuela, "A statistical model for indoor
multipath propagation," IEEE Jour. Select. Areas in Comm., vol.195 SAC-5, no. 2,
pp.128-137, Feb.1987.
[00329]       [2] J. W. Wallace and M. A. Jensen, "Statistical characteristics of
measured MIMO wireless channel data and comparison to conventional models,"
Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., vol. 2, no. 7-11, pp. 1078-1082, Oct. 2001.
[00330]       [3] V. Erceg et al., "TGn channel models," IEEE 802.11-03/940r4, May
2004.
[00331]       [4] 3GPP Technical Specification Group, "Spatial channel model, SCM
134 text V6.0," Spatial Channel Model AHG (Combined ad-hoc from 3GPP and
3GPP2), Apr. 2003.
[00332]       [5-16] D.-S. Shiu, G. J. Foschini, M. J. Gans, and J. M. Kahn, "Fading
correlation and its effect on the capacity of multielement antenna systems," IEEE
Trans. Comm., vol. 48, no. 3, pp. 502-513, Mar. 2000.
[00333]       [6-17] V. Pohl, V. Jungnickel, T. Haustein, and C. von Helmolt,
"Antenna spacing in MIMO indoor channels," Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., vol. 2,
pp. 749-753, May 2002.
[00334]       [7-18] M. Stoytchev, H. Safar, A. L. Moustakas, and S. Simon,
"Compact antenna arrays for MIMO applications," Proc. IEEE Antennas and Prop.
Symp., vol. 3, pp. 708-711, July 2001.
[00335]       [8-19] K. Sulonen, P. Suvikunnas, L. Vuokko, J. Kivinen, and P.
Vainikainen, "Comparison of MIMO antenna configurations in picocell and microcell
environments," IEEE Jour. Select. Areas in Comm., vol. 21, pp. 703-712, June 2003.
[00336]       [9-20] Shuangqing Wei, D. L. Goeckel, and R. Janaswamy, "On the
asymptotic capacity of MIMO systems with fixed length linear antenna arrays," Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. on Comm., vol. 4, pp. 2633-2637, 2003.
[00337]       [10-21] T. S. Pollock, T. D. Abhayapala, and R. A. Kennedy, "Antenna
saturation effects on MIMO capacity," Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Comm., 192 vol. 4,
pp. 2301-2305, May 2003.
[00338]       [11-22] M. L. Morris and M. A. Jensen, "The impact of array
configuration on MIMO wireless channel capacity," Proc. IEEE Antennas and Prop.
                                            72

Symp., vol. 3, pp. 214-217, June 2002.
[00339]       [12-23] Liang Xiao, Lin Dal, Hairuo Zhuang, Shidong Zhou, and Yan
Yao, "A comparative study of MIMO capacity with different antenna topologies,"
IEEE ICCS'02, vol. 1, pp. 431-435, Nov. 2002.
[00340]       [13-24] A. Forenza and R. W. Heath Jr., "Impact of antenna geometry
on MIMO communication in indoor clustered channels," Proc. IEEE Antennas and
Prop. Symp., vol. 2, pp. 1700-1703, June 2004.
[00341]       [14] M. R. Andrews, P. P. Mitra, and R. deCarvalho, "Tripling the
capacity of wireless communications using electromagnetic polarization," Nature, vol.
409, pp. 316-318, Jan. 2001.
[00342]       [15] D.D. Stancil, A. Berson, J.P. Van't Hof, R. Negi, S. Sheth, and P.
Patel, "Doubling wireless channel capacity using co-polarised, co-located electric
and magnetic dipoles," Electronics Letters, vol. 38, pp. 746-747, July 2002.
[00343]         [16] T. Svantesson, "On capacity and correlation of multi-antenna
systems employing multiple polarizations," Proc. IEEE Antennas and Prop. Symp.,
vol. 3, pp. 202-205, June 2002.
[00344]       [17] C. Degen and W. Keusgen, "Performance evaluation of MIMO
systems using dual-polarized antennas," Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Telecommun., vol.
2, pp.1520-1525, Feb.2003.
[00345]       [18] R. Vaughan, "Switched parasitic elements for antenna diversity,"
IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 47, pp. 399-405, Feb. 1999.
[00346]       [19] P. Mattheijssen, M. H. A. J. Herben, G. Dolmans, and L. Leyten,
"Antenna-pattern diversity versus space diversity for use at handhelds," IEEE Trans.
on Veh. Technol., vol. 53, pp. 1035-1042, July 2004.
[00347]       [20] L. Dong, H. Ling, and R. W. Heath Jr., "Multiple-input multiple
output wireless communication systems using antenna pattern diversity," Proc. IEEE
Glob. Telecom. Conf., vol. 1, pp. 997-1001, Nov. 2002.
[00348]       [21] J. B. Andersen and B. N. Getu, "The MIMO cube-a compact MIMO
antenna," IEEE Proc. of Wireless Personal Multimedia Communications Int. Symp.,
vol. 1, pp. 112-114, Oct. 2002.
[00349]       [22] C. Waldschmidt, C. Kuhnert, S. Schulteis, and W. Wiesbeck,
"Compact MIMO-arrays based on polarisation-diversity," Proc. IEEE Antennas and
Prop. Symp., vol. 2, pp. 499-502, June 2003.
[00350]       [23] C. B. Dietrich Jr, K. Dietze, J. R. Nealy, and W. L. Stutzman,
                                            73

"Spatial, polarization, and pattern diversity for wireless handheld terminals," Proc.
IEEE Antennas and Prop. Symp., vol. 49, pp. 1271-1281, Sep. 2001.
[00351]        [24] S. Visuri and D. T. Slock, "Colocated antenna arrays: design
desiderata for wireless communications," Proc. of Sensor Array and Multichannel
Sign. Proc. Workshop, pp. 580-584, Aug. 2002.
[00352]        [25] A. Forenza and R. W. Heath Jr., "Benefit of pattern diversity via 2
element array of circular patch antennas in indoor clustered MIMO channels," IEEE
Trans. on Communications, vol. 54, no. 5, pp. 943-954, May 2006.
[00353]        [26] A. Forenza and R. W. Heath, Jr., ''Optimization Methodology for
Designing 2-CPAs Exploiting Pattern Diversity in Clustered MIMO Channels", IEEE
Trans. on Communications, Vol. 56, no. 10, pp. 1748 -1759, Oct. 2008.
[00354]        [27] D. Piazza, N. J. Kirsch, A. Forenza, R. W. Heath, Jr., and K. R.
Dandekar, 'Design and Evaluation of a Reconfigurable Antenna Array for MIMO
Systems," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 56, no. 3, pp. 869
881, March 2008.
[00355]        [28] R. Bhagavatula, R. W. Heath, Jr., A. Forenza, and S. Vishwanath,
''Sizing up MIMO Arrays," IEEE Vehicular Technology Magazine, vol. 3, no. 4, pp.
31-38, Dec. 2008.
[00356]        [29] Ada Poon, R. Brodersen and D. Tse, "Degrees of Freedom in
Multiple Antenna Channels: A Signal Space Approach" , IEEE Transactions on
Information Theory, vol. 51(2), Feb. 2005, pp. 523-536.
[00357]        [30] M. Costa, "Writing on dirty paper," IEEE Transactions on
Information Theory, Vol. 29, No. 3, Page(s): 439 - 441, May 1983.
[00358]        [31] U. Erez, S. Shamai (Shitz), and R. Zamir, "Capacity and lattice
strategies for cancelling known interference," Proceedings of International
Symposium on Information Theory, Honolulu, Hawaii, Nov. 2000.
[00359]        [32] M. Tomlinson, "New automatic equalizer employing modulo
arithmetic," Electronics Letters, Page(s): 138 - 139, March 1971.
[00360]        [33] H. Miyakawa and H. Harashima, "A method of code conversion for
digital communication channels with intersymbol interference," Transactions of the
Institute of Electronic.
[00361]        [34] R. A. Monziano and T. W. Miller, Introduction to Adaptive Arrays,
New York: Wiley, 1980.
[00362]        [35] T. Yoo, N. Jindal, and A. Goldsmith, "Multi-antenna broadcast
                                            74

channels with limited feedback and user selection," IEEE Journal on Sel. Areas in
Communications, vol. 25, pp. 1478-91, July 2007.
[00363]      [36] P. Ding, D. J. Love, and M. D. Zoltowski, "On the sum rate of
channel subspace feedback for multi-antenna broadcast channels," in Proc., IEEE
Globecom, vol. 5, pp. 2699-2703, November 2005.
[00364]      [37] N. Jindal, "MIMO broadcast channels with finite-rate feedback,"
IEEE Trans. on Info. Theory, vol. 52, pp. 5045-60, November 2006.
                                          75

CLAIMS
        1.     A system that enables planned evolution and obsolescence of multiuser
wireless spectrum comprising:
        one or multiple centralized processors (CPs) communicatively coupled to one
another; and
        one or multiple distributed nodes or wireless transceiver stations
communicatively coupled to the centralized processors over wireline or wireless
connections, the plurality of distributed nodes concurrently transmitting or receiving a
plurality of non-interfering data links within the same frequency channel to or from at
least one of a plurality of wireless user devices over a plurality of wireless
connections, the CPs dynamically adjusting the configuration of the distributed nodes
in accordance with evolutionary changes to network architecture.
        2.     The system in claim 1, wherein the distributed nodes share information
including their identification numbers and other reconfigurable system parameters
with the centralized processor.
        3.     The system in claim 2, wherein the information about all distributed
nodes is stored in a database that is shared by all centralized processors.
        4.     The system in claim 2, wherein the reconfigurable system parameters
comprise power emission, frequency band, modulation/coding scheme.
        5.     The system in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the distributed nodes
are software defined radios.
        6.      The system in claim 5, wherein the software defined radios comprise
FPGA, DSP, GPU and/or GPCPU that run algorithms for baseband signal
processing.
                                             76

        7.     The system in claim 5 or claim 6, wherein the software defined radios
are reconfigured remotely by the centralized processor.
        8.     The system in any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the distributed nodes
are reconfigured periodically or instantly as a cloud wireless system to adjust to
evolving wireless architectures.
        9.      A method that enables planned evolution and obsolescence of
multiuser wireless spectrum comprising:
        communicatively coupling one or multiple centralized processors to one
another; and
        communicatively coupling one or multiple distributed nodes or wireless
transceiver stations to the centralized processors (CPs) over wireline or wireless
connections, the plurality of distributed nodes concurrently transmitting or receiving a
plurality of non-interfering data links within the same frequency channel to or from at
least one of a plurality of wireless user devices over a plurality of wireless
connections, the CPs dynamically adjusting the configuration of the distributed nodes
in accordance with evolutionary changes to network architecture.
        10.    The method in claim 9, wherein the distributed nodes share information
including their identification numbers and other reconfigurable system parameters
with the centralized processor.
        11.    The method in claim 10, wherein the information about all distributed
nodes is stored in a database that is shared by all centralized processors.
                                              77

       12.    The method in claim 10, wherein the reconfigurable system parameters
comprise power emission, frequency band, modulation/coding scheme.
       13.    The method in any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein the distributed nodes
are software defined radios.
       14.     The method in claim 13, wherein the software defined radios comprise
FPGA, DSP, GPU and/or GPCPU that run algorithms for baseband signal
processing.
       15.    The method in claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the software defined
radios are reconfigured remotely by the centralized processor.
       16.    The method in any one of claims 9 to 15, wherein the distributed nodes
are reconfigured periodically or instantly as a cloud wireless system to adjust to
evolving wireless architectures.
                                           78

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
