                                               ABSTRACT
A method for drilling a wellbore using a modeled well with improved accuracy, comprising: defining
depth intervals representing the modelled well; for each depth interval, selecting a set of
computational model calculations based at least on a given depth of each depth interval and on
predetermined criteria associated with the given depth; receiving a numeric value for each input
parameter in each computational model; computing computational model results by using each of
the values as the input parameters in different respective computational model calculations;
displaying an interval plot representing the results of the computational model calculations using the
input parameters; populating a grid utilizing the input parameters associated with an interval plot;
repeating the steps of b-f for each depth interval; displaying each interval plot having corresponding
input parameters populating the grid; and drilling the wellbore in accordance with the input
parameters.

             DRILLING ENGINEERING ANALYSIS ROADMAP BUILDER FOR
                          HYDROCARBON RESERVOIR MODELING
            The present specification was filed as a divisional application of AU2013403367,
 5 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                  FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
            The present disclosure generally relates to the modeling and analysis of drilling
   systems in the oil and gas industries, and more particularly, to organizing and facilitating
   the visualization    of modeled operational constraints and set of operational input
10 parameters for different depth intervals.
                                          BACKGROUND
            Modeling in the oil and gas industry is important to maximizing return on
   investment. Such modeling includes the modeling of formations, as well as the modeling
   of drilling and extraction systems used to recover hydrocarbons from formations.          One
15 important aspect of any such model is to understand the effects of changes to various
   model parameters as depth changes.        For example, one might model how a change in
   drilling mud density might affect the drill string penetration rate at a particular depth. As
   depth of investigation changes, the most optimum parameters for that particular depth may
   change.    Additionally, or alternatively, the significance of particular parameters may
20 change with depth.      In other words, one set of analyses and parameters may be most
   significant for a first depth, while a different set of analyses and parameters may be most
   significant for a second depth.
            Organizing and visualizing the results of each of the analyses performed for a
   given depth or hole-section of a modeled well where different operational parameters are
25 applied is difficult and tedious with excessive work load for the end user. One option to
   avoid such an approach is to select analyses for the entire length of a modeled wellbore
   and utilize for those analyses equations one set of parameters and parameter values across
   the entire wellbore.    In such case, typically, a user may select the parameter values to
   simulate the worst case scenario for a wellbore. The resulting visual representation is a
30 single plot along the entire length of the modeled wellbore.          Often, this plot may be
   significantly different at any given depth from a more accurate model of the wellbore.
            Another approach is to perform analysis at a plurality of select depth intervals.
   Typically, a user first must select the different depth intervals for analysis.       Then the
                                                      1

   particular analyses or calculations to be performed at that depth are selected. Next, a set of
   input values for the equations utilized in the analyses are entered and results are computed.
   The results of the analyses is then presented in a visual representation that is "frozen" or
   saved as a "snapshot." The user must then change the input parameter values and repeat
 5 the visual representation process. The forgoing will result in a plurality of snapshots for
   any given depth, leaving the user to keep track of which snap shot corresponds to which
   particular set of values among the analyses.        The most desired snapshot for any given
   depth may then be selected and compiled into a roadmap for the overall wellbore.             In
   addition to the drawbacks discussed above, such a process requires prolonged iteration
10 time and inhibits updates to the models when performing design changes on the fly.
           The complexity of the foregoing procedure increases as other analyses and string
   operations are performed simultaneously.       It is difficult to keep track of different depth
   ranges, sets of specific parameters for each of the depth intervals, and analyses or
   operation types.
15                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Various embodiments of the present disclosure will be understood more fully from
   the detailed description given below and from the accompanying drawings of various
   embodiments of the disclosure. In the drawings, like reference numbers may indicate
   identical or functionally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears
20 is generally indicated by the left-most digit in the corresponding reference number.
           FIG. 1 illustrates a system architecture, in accordance with various embodiments
   of the present disclosure.
           FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating a wellbore roadmap modeling system, in
   accordance with an embodiment.
25         FIG. 3 is a wellbore roadmap illustrating torque at surface as a function of depth.
           FIG. 4 is wellbore roadmap illustrating hook load at surface as a function of depth.
           FIG. 5 is a flow diagram illustrating wellbore roadmap modeling, according to an
   embodiment.
           FIG. 6 illustrates a user interface for generating a wellbore roadmap in a well
30 planning application, according to an embodiment.
           FIG. 7 is a graph of a wellbore characteristic as a function of depth illustrating the
   selection of depth intervals in the wellbore roadmap modeling system, according to an
   embodiment.
           FIG. 8 illustrates a user interface for generating a wellbore roadmap in a well
35 planning application, according to an embodiment.
                                                      2

            FIG. 9 is a block diagram of an exemplary computer system that may perform one
   or more of the operations described herein.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5          FIG. 1 illustrates system architecture       100 in which embodiments can be
   implemented. System architecture 100 includes server machine 110, data store 140 and
   client machines 102A-102N connected to a network 104. Network 104 may be a public
   network (e.g., the Internet), a private network (e.g., a local area network (LAN), a wide
   area network (WAN)), or a combination thereof.
10          Client machines 102A-102N may be personal computers (PC), laptops, mobile
   phones, tablet computers, or any other computing device. Client machines 102A-102N
   may run an operating system (OS) that manages hardware and software of the client
   machines 102A-102N.
            Server machine 110 may be a rackmount server, a router computer, a personal
is computer, a portable digital assistant, a mobile phone, a laptop computer, a tablet
   computer, a netbook, a desktop computer, a media center, or any combination thereof.
            Server machine 110 includes a wellbore roadmap modeling system 120. In some
   embodiments, wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 may run on one or more different
   machines. In other embodiments, wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 may run on a
20 single machine.
            In general, functions described in embodiments as being performed by server 110
   also may be performed on client machines 102A-102N in other embodiments. In addition,
   the functionality attributed to a particular component can be performed by different or
   multiple components operating together.       Server 110 also can be accessed as a service
25 provided to other systems or devices through appropriate application programming
   interfaces.
            Data store 140 is persistent storage that is capable of storing various types of data
   (e.g., text, audio, video, images, maps). In some embodiments data store 140 might be a
   network-attached file server, while in other embodiments data store 140 might be some
30 other type of persistent storage such as an object-oriented database, a relational database,
   and so forth.
            In an example, data store 140 is associated with a well planning service. A well
   planning service may include systems, software applications and websites that allow users
   to create, modify, publish, distribute, and access various forms of well planning
                                                     3

   information. Thus, data store 140 may include well planning data, scenarios, simulations,
   graphics, etc.
           Wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 may perform wellbore roadmap using one
   or more input parameters having numeric range data specified as input.       For example,
 5 wellbore roadmap module 120 may assist users by automatically generating wellbore
   roadmap results based on numeric range data provided for various input parameters of a
   computational model.     Thus, wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 may use numeric
   range data specified for input parameters to automate various manual and tedious steps
   that would otherwise be required when performing wellbore roadmap.
10         For example, wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 may receive a user-provided
   numeric range for an input parameter, automatically select multiple values from the
   numeric    range   to  use   when   performing    wellbore   roadmap,  calculate  different
   computational model results for each of the selected values, generate graphical results to
   provide wellbore roadmap for the input parameter, and present the graphical results to a
15 user.
           In an example, a computational model generally refers to a mathematical model
   that is used to analyze and predict the behavior of a complex system through computer
   simulation.    Examples of computational models include, but are not limited to, well
   engineering models, well planning and control models, hydrocarbon reservoir models,
20 weather forecasting models, crime prediction models, etc. Range-based wellbore roadmap
   may be applied to computational models of any discipline and is not limited to the
   examples presented in this disclosure.
           FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating a wellbore roadmap modeling system 120, in
   accordance with an embodiment.         Wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 includes
25 request receiving module 202, wellbore roadmap generation module 204, and user
   interface display module 206. In other embodiments, functionality associated with one or
   more of request receiving module 202, wellbore roadmap generation module 204 and user
   interface display module 206 may be combined, divided and organized in various
   arrangements.    In an embodiment, wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 is coupled to
30 data store 140 and working data store 240. Data store 140 includes data 220. Working
   data store 240 includes temporary data 250.
           In an embodiment, data 220 may include various forms of textual, audio, video,
   map, geodetic, spatial, and image content, as well as modeling equations and functions (for
   purposes of the disclosure, generally referred to herein as "computational model
35 calculations") used by a wellbore roadmap modeling system 120.         For example, with
                                                    4

   respect to drilling and extraction of hydrocarbons, such data may include formation
   porosity and permeability, formation pressure, formation stratification, drilling mud
   weights, drilling mud viscosity, etc. Likewise, such computational model calculations
   may represent various characteristics of a well to be modeled, such as the non-limiting
 5 example of well parameters as a function of depth. In this regard, data 220 may be data
   acquired from sensors or other equipment and uniquely associated with a particular
   reservoir or drilling system, or data 220 may be generally representative of a reservoir or
   drilling system.
            Wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 may use working data store 240 as a
10 temporary storage space for temporary data 250 associated with intermediate calculations
   and other operations associated with wellbore roadmap modeling system 220. Working
   data store 240 may include, for example, any type or combination of volatile and non
   volatile storage (e.g., disk, memory).
            Request receiving module 202 receives a first set of values for input parameters of
15 a computational model. The first set of input parameter values may be received as part of
   a user generated or automated request to generate a wellbore roadmap. In one example, a
   user specifies a plurality of depth intervals representing a modeled well. The user may
   specify the numeric range for depth intervals or the number of intervals and length of
   intervals for a wellbore of a defined length, for example, in an input field of a graphical
20 user interface or textually on a command line interface. The wellbore length, and interval
   range or number of intervals, then may be submitted as one of many inputs to a
   computational model. User interface display module 206 may then graphically display a
   generated wellbore with the intervals characterized or otherwise highlighted. Persons of
   skill in the art will appreciate that in certain embodiments, "depth" as used herein refers to
25 axial distance of the wellbore from the surface, as opposed to simply a vertical distance
   from the surface, such that a particular depth interval may extend along a horizontal or
   non-vertical portion of a wellbore.
            Request receiving module 202 also receives a set of computational model
   calculations to be associated with each interval.          A list of computational model
30 calculations may be presented for the user to select from, or alternatively, a set of
   computational model calculations may be automatically selected based on the particular
   depth of the interval and predetermined criteria associated with the particular depth. For
   example, at a first interval, a first set of modeling equations, functions and calculations
   may be most significant to modeling of the well at the first interval, while at a second
35 interval, a second set of modeling equations, functions and calculations may be more
                                                      5

   significant to modeling of the well. As an example, at a first shallow interval, the kick off
   point of the directional trajectory may be the focus of the modeling because one might be
   using different string components and drilling parameters to drill this section of the hole,
   while at a deeper interval, mud column weight becomes more significant and may be the
 5 focus of the modeling.
           Finally, request receiving module 202 receives values for a second set of input
   parameters of a computational model. The second set of input parameter values may be
   received as part of a user generated or automated request to generate a wellbore roadmap.
   In certain embodiments, a specific value is provided for one or more input parameters in
10 the second set. In other embodiments, a numeric range defined as a minimum value and a
   maximum value is provided for one or more input parameters in the second set.
   Alternatively, the second set of input parameters may include some specific values and
   some ranges.     The second set of input parameters represent the values utilized in the
   computational model calculations.       Non-limiting examples of the second set of input
15 parameters include weight on bit, rate of penetration, rotary speed, and mud weight.
           Once received, the second set of input parameter values are then utilized in the
   computational model calculations for each depth interval and a graphical interval plot is
   generated for each depth interval, as is illustrated in FIGS. 3 and 4.
           Turning to FIG. 3, a graphical output 300 presenting a plurality of disparate
20 interval plots 310 is illustrated and is generally referred to as a "wellbore roadmap."
   Wellbore roadmap as used herein refers to a graphical representation for any particular
   characteristic of a wellbore as a function of depth. For example, a wellbore roadmap may
   be illustrated as a hook load as a function of depth; torque load as a function of depth;
   weight on bit as a function of depth; mud weight as a function of depth, etc. In FIG. 3,
25 specifically, the calculated torque at surface as a function of depth is shown for a plurality
   of individual depth intervals.    To generate graphical output 300, six individual intervals
   320a - 320f have been defined and computational model calculations performed for each
   interval. The results are plots 310a-310f, correspondingly associated with intervals 320a
   320f. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate from the disparate individual
30 intervals that attempts to curve fit a single plot along the entire length of the modeled
   wellbore could yield a curve that differs significantly from actual torque at certain depths.
   For example, in the illustration, a curve fit would likely result in a curve where the torque
   at surface between 6,000 ft. and 7,000 ft. is inaccurately skewed downward at between
   6,000 ft. and 6,500 ft. and is inaccurately skewed upward between 6,500 ft. and 7,000 ft.
                                                      6

   Rather, by calculating interval plots 310, a much more accurate representation of the
   torque at surface for a particular depth can be presented.
            In FIG. 4, a graphical output 400 presenting a plurality of disparate interval plots
   410 is illustrated. Specifically, the calculated hook load at surface for individual depth
 5 intervals is shown. To generate graphical output 400, six individual intervals 420a - 420f
   have been defined and computational model calculations performed for each interval. The
   results are plots 410a-410f, correspondingly associated with intervals 420a-420f. Again,
   persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate from the disparate individual intervals
   that attempts to curve fit a single plot along the entire length of the modeled wellbore
10 could yield a curve that differs significantly from actual hook loads at certain depths. For
   example, in the illustration, a curve fit would likely result in a curve where the hook load
   at surface between 5,200 ft and 6,400 ft is inaccurately skewed upward.             Rather, by
   calculating interval plots 410, a much more accurate representation of the torque at surface
   for a particular depth can be presented.
15          FIG. 5 is a flow diagram illustrating a wellbore roadmap modeling system,
   according to an embodiment.        Method 500 is performed by processing logic that may
   comprise hardware (circuitry, dedicated logic, etc.), software (such as is run on a general
   purpose computer system or a dedicated machine), or a combination of both.              In one
   embodiment, method 500 is performed by server machine 110 of FIG. 1. Method 500
20 may be performed by wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 running on server machine
   110 or one or more other computing devices.
            Method 500 begins at step 502, where a wellbore, or a portion of a wellbore, in a
   formation is defined. In this step, a wellbore may generally be modeled in a formation.
   The modeled wellbore may be graphically illustrated, such as shown as wellbore 610 in
25 FIG. 6, and preferably illustrates the directional profile of the wellbore in the formation.
   In this regard, the wellbore is defined along an axial length, which may include horizontal
   and/or vertical portions. Moreover, while generally referred to herein as a wellbore, the
   modeled portion may be a branch off of a main wellbore.
            In step 504, a plurality of depth intervals for the modeled wellbore is defined. The
30 depth intervals may be selected by a user or computer defined. As used herein, depth
   interval refers to an axial length or segment of the wellbore representing a portion of the
   overall axial length of a larger length of the wellbore, or alternatively, the entire length of
   the wellbore. FIG. 6 illustrates individual depth intervals 612a, 612b and 612c.
             With respect to step 504, in certain embodiments, the intervals may be selected
35 based on preliminary computational model calculations.               The preliminary model
                                                       7

   calculations may be used to determine a particular characteristic of the wellbore
   environment (which may include the formation, the wellbore itself, a drill string or other
   equipment disposed n the wellbore or other materials, such as drilling mud, cuttings or
   hydrocarbons in the wellbore) as a function of depth. For example, weight on bit of the
 5 drill string may be determined as a function of depth. Intervals may then be selected each
   time there is a significant change in the characteristic as a function of depth. FIG. 7
   illustrates this step in operation. In this case, weight on bit is determined as a function of
   depth. Thereafter, intervals may be selected based on changes in the weight on bit as
   depth increases. In the illustration, a segment of a wellbore extends from approximately
10 5000 ft. to approximately 8400 ft. The weight on bit as a function of depth is presented by
   line 710. Line 710 may then be divided into segments as desired, such as segments 710a
   710e. For example, as shown, there is a significant decrease in the change in weight on bit
   at approximately 5,000 ft. Thus, this change would be an appropriate spot to separate
   segments and depth intervals. In this case, segments 710c and 710d are defined at the
15 change, which segments then correspond to depth intervals 720c and 720d. As shown,
   depth interval 720d is significantly larger than depth interval 720c because the change in
   weight on bit across depth interval 720d is comparatively small. In this same vein, for
   each of segments 710a-710c, the change in weight on bit between segments is
   comparatively large.       Thus, in this case, the related depth intervals 720a-720c are
20 comparatively small.      In this way, segments 710a-710e may be used to define depth
   intervals.   Alternatively, a user or computer may simply define intervals based on the
   degree of change in a particular characteristic. Thus, for example, in FIG. 7, any change
   in the weight on bit of more than 10 kip may result in a separate depth interval being
   defined.
25          Turning back to FIG. 5, in step 506, computational model calculations are selected
   for each interval. The computational models have one or more variable parameters. In
   one preferred embodiment, a user selects a set of computational model calculations from a
   larger group of computational model calculations, such as all of the computational model
   calculations that might be used to model a wellbore pipe string related operation. The
30 selected set is associated with a particular interval.            Between intervals, sets of
   computational model calculations may be the same or differ. In certain cases, it may be
   that a first set of computation model calculations are most important for a first portion of
   the wellbore while a second set of computational model calculations are most important
   for a second portion of the wellbore. Thus, the set of computational model calculations for
35 each depth interval may be the same or differ.             Alternatively, the computer can
                                                      8

   automatically assign a set of computational model calculations to each determined depth
   interval based on predetermined criteria, such as the type of operation performed at the
   specific intervals (sliding, rotating, tripping in and out, cementing, etc.).
           At step 508, a numeric value or range of values is received for each input
 5 parameter of a computational model. The values are proved for each set of computational
   model calculations associated with an interval. In an embodiment, a computational model
   includes one or more different input parameters, each of which may accept a single value
   or a numeric range. In one embodiment, a numeric values are received from input fields in
   a well planning software application. This data may be provided via a table or chart, or via
10 a graphical user interface ("GUI") utilized for data input. In another embodiment, numeric
   values are received from data store 140 or from other external source of data.
           In an embodiment, one or more input fields are provided on a user interface. In an
   example, some input fields accept only one type of input such as either a numeric range or
   individual numeric values. In another example, flexible input fields may accept one or
is more different types of input. For example, one type of flexible input field may accept
   either a specific numeric value or a defined numeric range at one time. Another type of
   flexible input field may accept either a specific text value or a defined numeric range at
   one time.
           At step 510, computational model calculation results are generated for a depth
20 interval utilizing the input parameters as the values for the computational model
   calculations associated with the particular depth interval. Step 510 is repeated for each
   depth interval using the associated computational model calculations and numeric values
   for the input parameters.      If a range of values is provided for an input parameter, the
   computational model calculations may be executed multiple times. Step 510 may be
25 performed by, for example, wellbore roadmap generation module 204.
           At step 512, the results of the computational model calculations for an interval plot
   are graphically displayed, such as is illustrated in FIGS. 3 and 4. To the extent all of the
   sets of computational model calculations have been executed, an interval plot for each of
   the sets of computational model calculations are displayed.          To the extent any set of
30 computational model calculations includes a value range as the input parameters, multiple
   interval plots for a select depth interval may be displayed.        In any event, while each
   interval plot may be separated displayed graphically, it is most desirable to collectively
   display all of the interval plots together.     Step 512 may be performed by, for example,
   wellbore roadmap generation module 204.
                                                       9

            In some embodiments, step 514 may be performed, wherein a grid utilizing the
   selected input parameters associated with an interval plot is populated. Numerical version
   of the results also may be provided alone or together with corresponding graphics. In one
   example, the results may be stored in a database for subsequent access. More particularly,
 5 each selected value for an input parameter that is used to generate an interval plot is
   provided in a control list. In an example, listed values are associated with at least one
   corresponding portion of the graphical output.         In one example, displayed results are
   adjusted to visually indicate the interval plot corresponding to a selected value in the
   control list based on a user interaction with the value. For example, an interval plot, i.e., a
10 plotted line on a graphical output, may be highlighted, may change color, or may be
   shaded when a user clicks, hovers, or interacts with a corresponding value in the control
   list of selected values. Generally, each row in the control list of selected values represents
   a set of numerical values used as parameters when performing a specific set of
   computational model calculation.         In other words, each row in the control list may
15 represent a different depth interval on the graphical output.
            In another example, a value in the control list of selected values is adjusted when a
   corresponding area of the displayed results is involved in a user interaction. For example,
   a specific value in the control list of selected values may be highlighted, may change color,
   may be shaded, or may be adjusted (e.g., italicized, underlined, etc.) when a user clicks,
20 hovers, or interacts with a corresponding area of the graphically displayed depth interval.
   Step 514 may be performed by, for example, by user interface display module 206.
            FIG. 6 illustrates one embodiment of graphical user interface or GUI for
   generating a wellbore roadmap in a well planning application. User interface 600 includes
   a graphical illustration of a wellbore, as shown at 610.          The particular position and
25 orientation of graphical illustration 610 may vary depending on the orientation of the
   wellbore in a formation.    While a vertical section of a wellbore is illustrated, the wellbore
   may be a horizontal wellbore or portion thereof. Alternatively a vertical depiction may be
   utilized to represent a horizontal portion. The graphical illustration 610 of a wellbore may
   further include relevant equipment 611 disposed in the modeled wellbore, such as the non
30 limited example of the depicted drill string.
            User interface 600 also preferably includes a plurality of depth intervals 612 for the
   modeled wellbore. As described above, depth intervals 612 may be selected by a user or
   computer defined. As used herein, depth interval refers to an axial length or segment of
   the wellbore representing a portion of the overall axial length of a larger length of the
                                                      10

   wellbore, or alternatively, the entire length of the wellbore. FIG. 6 illustrates individual
   depth intervals 612a, 612b and 612c.
           Persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that interface 600 is generated
   upon the selection or determination of the wellbore parameters, i.e., length and depth
 5 intervals.   Interface 600 may include data input blocks 611 for receiving one or more
   wellbore parameters. In this regard, generating interface 600 is an optional step that can
   be associated with steps 502-504 of the process illustrated in FIG. 5.
           A graphically displayed depth slider 614 may also be depicted. Preferably depth
   slider 614 is arranged adjacent to the length of the graphical illustration 610 of the
10 wellbore. Associated with the depth slider 614 are one or more interim plots 616. Interim
   plots are graphical representations of particular parameters or characteristics associated
   with the wellbore at a select depth. Interim plots 616 may also graphically illustrate one or
   more plotted computational model calculations. As slider 614 is adjusted, different interim
   plots 616 for the particular depth represented by slider 614 may be displayed.
15         In the illustrated example, interim plot 616a illustrates a graphical representation of
   the overall directional profile of an entire wellbore with an indicator 618 corresponding to
   graphical illustration of a wellbore section displayed at 610. Interim plot 616b is a plan
   view of the same directional profile. Interim plot 616c is a representation of the pore
   pressure and fracture gradient profiles of different formations to be drilled. Persons of
20 ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the disclosure is not limited by the number or
   type of interim plots 616 displayed. Rather, interim plots may be defined or otherwise
   selected by the user as desired.
           User interface 600 may also include a listing of computational model calculations,
   such as at 617.       The list may represent a larger grouping of computational model
25 calculations from which a user may choose a set to associate with a specified depth (which
   may be specified by slider 614), or the list may simply represent the set of computational
   model calculations associated with a depth (previously determined). In this regard, one or
   more listed computational model calculations 617(1). . .617(n) may be linked to the
   interim plots 616, such that an interim plot graphically illustrates a particularly listed
30 computational calculation across a particular variable range.
           User interface 600 may also include one or more sliders 618 corresponding to input
   parameters associated with the computational model calculations for a particular depth or
   depth interval.      As slider 614 is adjusted, different input parameter sliders 618
   corresponding with the input parameters associated with a particular depth interval set of
35 computational model calculations may be displayed.
                                                     11

            Preferably a slider 618 is provided for each computational model calculation within
   a set for which a variable may be adjusted. For example, if a set of computational model
   calculations required a numeric value input for five different input parameters, then five
   different input parameter sliders 618a-618e would be displayed. Each slider 618 can be
 5 moved through a range for a particular input parameter.           The range may be manually
   entered by the user or may be selected by using the slider 614, the same will move in
   synchronization with the other depth based plots.         As an input slider 618 is adjusted,
   corresponding changes in one or more interim plots 616 will be depicted, thereby
   permitting a user to readily visualize the effects of a change in one or more values of input
10 parameters. In some embodiments, adjacent one or more sliders described herein (depth
   and input parameters), a numerical value representing the position of the slider may be
   displayed.
            Optionally, a wellbore operation selector 620 may be provided.                Wellbore
   operation selector 620 allows a user to select the particular operation being carried out in
15 the modeled wellbore. For example, a drill string may be rotating or sliding; or equipment
   may be tripped in or tripped out of the wellbore; or production equipment may be installed
   and operating in the wellbore. Persons of skill in the art will appreciate that the wellbore
   operation will drive the modeling of the wellbore and therefore the computational model
   calculations that might be utilized in the modeling.
20          Finally, interface 600 includes an icon 622 that allows a user to select a particular
   set of input parameters to generate an interval plot. Specifically, once input parameter
   slider(s) 618 have been positioned as desired at a particular depth interval, activation of
   icon 622 generates an interval plot and corresponding entries in the associated control list.
            FIG. 8 illustrates another embodiment of user interface for generating a wellbore
25 roadmap in a well planning application. User interface 800 is similar to user interface 600,
   but without a graphical illustration of a wellbore.            User interface 800 includes a
   graphically displayed depth slider 814, the range of which is driven by user or computer
   input to correspond to wellbore or portion thereof. Associated with the depth slider 814
   are one or more interim plots 816. Interim plots are graphical representations of particular
30 parameters or characteristics associated with the wellbore at a select depth. As slider 814
   is adjusted, different interim plots 816 for the particular depth represented by slider 814
   may be displayed.
            In the illustrated example, interim plot 816a illustrates a graphical representation of
   torque vs. run measured depth and the correspondent limits. Interim plot 816b illustrates a
35 graphical representation of hook load (or surface weight) vs. run measured depth and the
                                                      12

   correspondent limits. Interim plot 816c is differences in pressure while moving or tripping
   the pipe string inside the wellbore vs. run measured depth.         Interim plot 816d is ECD
   (Equivalent circulation density) vs. measured depth and the correspondent limits. Persons
   of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the disclosure is not limited by the number
 5 or type of interim plots 816 displayed. Rather, interim plots may be defined or otherwise
   selected by the user as desired.
           User interface 800 may also include one or more sliders 818 corresponding to input
   parameters associated with the computational model calculations for a particular depth or
   depth interval.   As depth slider 814 is adjusted, different input parameter sliders 818
10 corresponding with the input parameters associated with a particular depth interval set of
   computational model calculations may be displayed.           Alternatively, sliders 818 may
   remain fixed across the depth intervals.
           Preferably a slider 818 is provided for each computational model calculation within
   a set for which a variable may be adjusted. For example, if a set of computational model
15 calculations required a numeric value input for five different input parameters, then five
   different input parameter sliders would be displayed.        Each slider 818 can be moved
   through a range for a particular input parameter. The range may be manually entered by
   the user or may be selected by using the slider 614, the same will move in synchronization
   with the other depth based plots. As an input slider is adjusted, corresponding changes in
20 one or more interim plots 816 will be depicted, thereby permitting a user to readily
   visualize the effects of a change in one or more values of input parameters.
           Optionally, a wellbore operation selector 820 may be provided.               Wellbore
   operation selector 820 allows a user to select the particular operation being carried out in
   the modeled wellbore. For example, a drill string may be rotating or sliding; or equipment
25 may be tripped in or tripped out of the wellbore; or production equipment may be installed
   and operating in the wellbore. Persons of skill in the art will appreciate that the wellbore
   operation will drive the modeling of the wellbore and therefore the computational model
   calculations that might be utilized in the modeling.
           Interface 800 includes an icon 822 that allows a user to select a particular set of
30 input parameters to generate an interval plot. Specifically, once input parameter slider(s)
   818 have been positioned as desired at a particular depth interval, activation of icon 822
   generates an interval plot and corresponding entries in the associated control list.
           Finally, interface 800 includes a control list 824 which displays data associated
   with each interval plot generated by wellbore roadmap generation module 204. Preferably,
35 each time icon 822 is activated, a new row 826(1) ...826(n) is generated and displayed in
                                                     13

   control list 824 for a particular depth interval.       As described above, the row 826
   corresponds to a graphical interval plot, such as interval plots 310 is illustrated in FIG. 3.
   The row 826 preferably may include a definition of the depth interval, such as for
   example, the axial depth at the beginning and ending of the depth interval, such as is
 5 illustrated at 828. The row 826 preferably may include the output in one or more columns
   from the various computational model calculations associated with the depth interval, such
   as is illustrated at 830.    In certain embodiments, selecting or otherwise highlighting a
   particular output will result in a pop-up display or similar presentation of the underlying
   details, i.e., intermediate calculations, input parameters, etc., used to generate the output.
10 Alternatively, or in addition, row 826 preferably may include in one or more columns
   numeric value data 832 for any input parameters utilized in the various computational
   model calculations associated with the depth interval.        Numeric value data 832 may
   include data 220 and may include values selected by sliders 818. Optionally, interface 800
   may include a user selectable visual indicator 832 for one or more rows 826 to toggle
15 between including (as active) or excluding (as inactive) a row 826 and the associated
   interval plot in a wellbore roadmap such as roadmaps 300 and 400 discussed above.
             While user interface 600 has been described without a control list, such as control
   list 824, and user interface 800 has been described without a graphical illustration 610 of a
   wellbore, it will be appreciated that a user interface as described herein may include both
20 of these elements. Moreover, with respect to interface 600, preferably a retrievable control
   list, such as control list 824, is generated even though it is not graphically presented on
   interface 600.      As described above, once results for a set of computational model
   calculations are computed, an interval plot is generated and a control list 824 or grid is
   populated.
25          In general, the foregoing interfaces and wellbore roadmaps that result therefrom
   allow a user to much more readily and accurately model a wellbore at select depths while
   at the same time visualizing the most significant characteristics of the wellbore
   environment at that depth.
            The foregoing embodiments presented herein are particularly useful when drilling
30 wellbores in oil and gas reservoirs. In an embodiment, using the wellbore roadmap system
   described herein, an oil or gas reservoir is modeled when designing a well completion plan
   for a well. In one example, a well completion plan includes selecting a fracturing plan,
   which may include selecting fracture zones, fracture zone positioning, fracturing fluids,
   proppants and fracturing pressures. In some embodiments, a drilling well completion plan
35 may include selecting a particular wellbore placement or wellbore trajectory or selecting a
                                                     14

   desired wellbore pressure to facilitate mass transfer and fluid flow to the wellbore. A
   drilling plan may be implemented based on a model by preparing equipment to drill the
   modeled wellbore, and a wellbore may be drilled in accordance with the plan. Thereafter,
   in one example, fracturing may be carried out in accordance with the model to enhance
 5 flow from the reservoir to the wellbore. In another example, wellbore pressure may be
   adjusted in accordance with the model to achieve a desired degree of mass transfer and
   fluid flow.
            While embodiments of the present disclosure may be described statically as part of
   implementing a drilling plan, those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that such
10 embodiments may also be implemented dynamically. For example, a drilling plan may be
   implemented using a first set of model data. Once drilling has commenced, the wellbore
   roadmap system may be updated utilizing actual measured values as input parameters,
   such as may be measured by sensors or other measurement equipment deployed or
   associated with a drilled wellbore.        In another example, the methods, systems and
is computer program products described herein may be utilized during the drilling process,
   on the fly or iteratively, to calculate and re-calculate characteristics of the reservoir over a
   period of time as parameters change, are clarified, or are adjusted. Thus, in an example,
   results of dynamic calculations may be utilized to alter a previously implemented drilling
   plan. For example, such dynamic calculations may result in the utilization of a heavier or
20 lighter fracturing fluids.
            FIG. 9 illustrates a diagram of a machine in the exemplary form of a computer
   system 900 within which a set of instructions, for causing the machine to perform any one
   or more of the methodologies discussed herein, may be executed.                   In alternative
   embodiments, the machine may be connected (e.g., networked) to other machines in a
25 LAN, an intranet, an extranet, or on the Internet. The machine may operate in the capacity
   of a server or a client machine in client-server network environment, or as a peer machine
   in a peer-to-peer (or distributed) network environment. The machine may be a personal
   computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a
   cellular telephone, a web appliance, a server, a network router, switch or bridge, or any
30 machine capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify
   actions to be taken by that machine. Further, while only a single machine is illustrated, the
   term "machine" shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually
   or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to perform any one or more of the
   methodologies discussed herein.
                                                      15

            The exemplary computer system 900 includes a processing device (processor) 902,
   a main memory 904 (e.g., read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random
   access memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), double data rate (DDR
   SDRAM), or DRAM (RDRAM), etc.), a static memory 906 (e.g., flash memory, static
 5 random access memory (SRAM), etc.), and a data storage device 918, which communicate
   with each other via a bus 930.
            Processor 902 represents one or more general-purpose processing devices such as a
   microprocessor, central processing unit, or the like. More particularly, the processor 902
   may be a complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, reduced instruction
10 set    computing    (RISC)    microprocessor,     very    long  instruction  word   (VLIW)
   microprocessor, or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors
   implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor 902 may also be one or
   more special-purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit
   (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP),
15 network processor, or the like. The processor 902 is configured to execute instructions
   922 for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.
            The computer system 900 may further include a network interface device 908. The
   computer system 900 also may include a video display unit 910 (e.g., a liquid crystal
   display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT)), an alphanumeric input device 912 (e.g., a
20 keyboard), a cursor control device 914 (e.g., a mouse), and a signal generation device 916
   (e.g., a speaker).
            The data storage device 918 may include a computer-readable storage medium 928
   on which is stored one or more sets of instructions 922 (e.g., software) embodying any one
   or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions 922 may
25 also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory 904 and/or within the
   processor 902 during execution thereof by the computer system 900, the main memory 904
   and the processor 902, also constituting computer-readable            storage media.   The
   instructions 922 may further be transmitted or received over a network 920 via network
   interface device 908.
30          In one embodiment, the instructions 922 include instructions for a wellbore
   roadmap modeling system (e.g., wellbore roadmap modeling system 120 of FIG. 1) and/or
   a software library containing methods that call a wellbore roadmap modeling system.
   While the computer-readable storage medium 928 (machine-readable storage medium) is
   shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium, the term "computer-readable
35 storage medium" should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a
                                                     16

   centralized or distributed database, and/or associated caches and servers) that store the one
   or more sets of instructions. The term "computer-readable storage medium" shall also be
   taken to include any medium that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of
   instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one
 5 or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure.       The term "computer-readable
   storage medium" shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state
   memories, optical media, and magnetic media.
            In the foregoing description, numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent,
   however, to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure, that the
10 present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details.       In some instances,
   well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form, rather than in detail,
   in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.
            Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of
   algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer
15 memory. An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence
   of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations
   of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of
   electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared,
   and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, for reasons of common
20 usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms,
   numbers, or the like.
            It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be
   associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels
   applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the
25 following discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing
   terms such as "receiving",         "computing",    "comparing",   "displaying",   "adjusting,"
   "applying," or the like, refer to the actions and processes of a computer system, or similar
   electronic computing device, that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical
   (e.g., electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other
30 data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or
   registers or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.
            Certain embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to an apparatus for
   performing the operations described herein. This apparatus may be constructed for the
   intended purposes, or it may comprise a general-purpose computer selectively activated or
35 reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program
                                                     17

   may be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but not limited to, any type
   of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read
   only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs,
   magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.
 5         Although various embodiments and methodologies              have been shown and
   described, the present disclosure is not limited to such embodiments and methodologies
   and will be understood to include all modifications and variations as would be apparent to
   one skilled in the art.    Therefore, it should be understood that this disclosure is not
   intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather, the intention is to cover
10 all modifications, equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the
   disclosure as defined by the appended claims.
                                                   18

                                               CLAIMS
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 5 1.      A computer-implemented method, comprising:
           a. receiving, by a processor, a plurality of depth intervals representing a modeled
               well;
           b. for each depth interval, selecting a set of computational model calculations;
           c. receiving, by a processor, a numeric value for each input parameter in each
10             computational model;
           d. computing, by the processor, computational model results by using each of the
               values as the input parameters in different respective computational model
               calculations;
           e. displaying, by the processor, an interval plot representing the results of the
is             computational model calculations using the input parameters;
           f.  populating a grid utilizing the selected input parameters associated with an
               interval plot;
           g. repeating the steps of b-f for each depth interval; and
           h. displaying, by the processor, each interval plot having corresponding input
20             parameters populating the grid.
   2.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
           for each input parameter of each computational model, selecting a numeric range
   defined as a minimum value and a maximum value;
           selecting a plurality of values in each numeric range to use as the input parameter
25 value in the different respective computational model calculations;
           for the plurality of values in the numeric range for each computational model,
   computing the computational model calculations and displaying, by the processor, an
   interval plot representing the results of the computational model calculation results; and
           populating the grid with selected input parameters associated with one of the
30 interval plots for the select depth interval.
   3.      The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: graphically
   displaying a parameter slider adjacent the interval plot for at least one numeric range; and
   adjusting the slider within the range to dynamically alter the adjacent interval plot.
                                                     19

   4.       The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein a parameter slider is
   displayed for a plurality of numeric ranges.
   5.       The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: utilizing the
 5 slider to select a value as the input parameter for at least one computational model
   calculation.
   6.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein interval plots are all
   displayed on a single plot representing a roadmap for the well.
10
   7.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of computational
   model calculations are the same for each depth interval.
   8.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a first depth interval has a
is first set of computational model calculations and a second depth interval has a second set
   of computational model calculations that is different from the first set.
   9.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
            selecting a preliminary set of computational model calculations and modeling a
20 wellbore through at least a portion of the depth of the wellbore;
            generating preliminary results from the preliminary set of computational model
   calculations as a function of depth for a modeled wellbore; and
            utilizing the preliminary results to determine the plurality of depth intervals.
25 10.       The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising:
            for a select depth range, displaying a plurality of interim plots associated with the
   set of computational model calculations for the select depth range;
            adjusting the parameter slider within the parameter range to dynamically alter the
            plurality of interim plots; and
30          utilizing the parameter slider to select a value as the input parameter for at least one
   computational model calculation.
                                                       20

   11.       The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising:
   displaying a directional depth profile for the modeled well adjacent the interim plots.
   12.      The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising:
 5          graphically displaying a depth slider adjacent the directional depth profile; and
   adjusting the depth slider along at least a portion of the length of the well to alter the
   plurality of interim plots and parameter sliders displayed adjacent the directional depth
   profile.
10 13.      The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising:
            displaying the grid as a list of interval plots and the input parameters for each
   interval plot.
   14.      The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein each listed input field is
is displayed with a corresponding selectable option to allow a user to include the associated
   interval plot in the display of the roadmap plot.
   15.      The computer-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising:
            adjusting the displayed results in the grid to visually alter the associated interval
20 plot on the roadmap plot.
   16.      The computer-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising:
            dragging the visually presented line representing an interval plot to adjust the
   displayed results in the grid.
25
   17.      The computer-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising:
            selecting an interval plot and visually highlighting the associated list entry in the
   grid.
30 18.      The computer-implemented method of claim 13, selecting a list entry in the grid
   and visually highlighting the associated interval plot.
                                                       21

   19.     The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: visually
   displaying an interval select option, the selection of which causes the grid to be populated
   and a corresponding interval plot to be selected.
   20.     A computer-implemented method for drilling a wellbore, comprising:
 5         modeling a hydrocarbon recovery system in a formation by:
           defining a plurality of depth intervals representing a modeled well;
           for each depth interval, selecting a set of computational model calculations;
           selecting a numeric value for each input parameter in each computational model;
           computing, by the processor, computational model results by using each of the
10 values as the input parameters in different respective computational model calculations;
           graphically displaying, by the processor, a plurality of interval plots, each interval
   plot corresponding to the results of a set of computational model calculations using the
   input parameters;
           populating a grid utilizing the selected input parameters associated with each
is interval plot; and
           displaying, by the processor, the plurality of interval plots having corresponding
   input parameters populating the grid.
   21.     The method of claim 18, further comprising:
20         preparing equipment to construct a portion of the wellbore in accordance with the
   modeled hydrocarbon recovery system; and
           drilling the wellbore in accordance with the selected input parameters.
   22.     A system comprising:
25         a memory and a processor coupled with the memory to perform any of the methods
   in claims 1-21.
   23.     A computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon that, when
   executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform any of the methods in claims 1
30 21.
                                                     22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
