ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to compositions, kits, uses, systems and methods for treating
overweight and obesity using naltrexone plus bupropion, preferably in combination with a
comprehensive web-based and/or telephone-based weight management program, and preferably
in subjects at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.

                METHODS OF TREATING OVERWEIGHT AND OBESITY
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001]     This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2013271622 filed on June 5, 2013, and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application
No. 61/656,451 filed on June 6, 2012, which are herein incorporated by reference in their
entirety.
                                          BACKGROUND
Field of the Invention
         [0002]     The present disclosure relates to compositions, kits, uses, systems and
methods for treating overweight and obesity using naltrexone plus bupropion, preferably in
combination with a comprehensive web-based and/or telephone-based weight management
program, and optionally in subjects at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
Description of the Related Art
         [0003]     Obesity has been defined in terms of body mass index (BMI).            BMI is
calculated as weight (kg)/[height    (M)]2 . According to the guidelines of the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO), for adults
over 20 years old, BMI is categorized as follows: below 18.5 is considered underweight, 18.5
24.9 is considered normal, 25.0-29.9 is considered overweight, and 30.0 and above is
considered obese (World Health Organization. Physical status: The use and interpretation of
anthropometry. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization 1995.              WHO Technical
Report Series).
         [0004]     The prevalence of obesity has markedly increased over the past three
decades, with 32% of men and 36% of women considered obese.             These individuals are at
increased risk for a variety of chronic conditions associated with obesity, including type 2
diabetes, coronary heart disease, hypertension, stroke, dyslipidemia, gallbladder disease, sleep
apnea, certain types of cancer, and osteoarthritis, as well as increased mortality risk from all
causes (NHLBI Clinical Guidelines, 1998).       Overweight and obesity are also associated with
increased all-cause mortality.
         [0005]     Diet and exercise-based behavioral modification is the mainstay of weight
management therapy. However, such intervention is often of limited effectiveness and difficult
for individuals to adhere to. Therefore, pharmacotherapy has been employed as an adjunct to
diet and exercise. Orlistat, lorcaserin, and phentermine/topiramate are currently the only three
                                                -1-

drugs approved in the United States for the long-term treatment of obesity. A 5-10% weight
loss has been determined to lead to significant medical benefits. While orlistat has a favorable
safety profile, it can cause loose stools and fecal incontinence, making acceptance by patients
difficult. Bariatric surgery (specifically gastric banding) is now indicated for subjects with BMI
>30 kg/m2 who have at least one obesity-related comorbidity. While effective in most cases, it
is invasive with possible complications including infection, death, hypoglycemia, failure to lose
weight, gastrointestinal symptoms, nutritional deficiencies, depression, sexual and relationship
problems, and noncompliance with behavioral recommendations.
         [0006]     U.S. Patent Nos. 7,375,111 and 7,462,626 disclose the combination of
naltrexone and bupropion (NB) for weight loss therapy. Wadden et al. disclose the combination
of naltrexone and bupropion as an adjunct to an intensive behavioral modification (BMOD)
program for weight loss.       Obesity (2011) 19:110-120.      The BMOD program described by
Wadden et al. was delivered in person to groups of 10-20 persons. Group meetings lasted 90
min and were held weekly for the first 16 weeks, every other week for the next 12 weeks, and
monthly thereafter (yielding a total of 28 sessions).      Group sessions typically began with a
review of participants' eating and activity records and other homework assignments.          Group
leaders then introduced a new topic in weight control which, during the first 16 weeks, included
meal planning, stimulus control, slowing eating, problem solving, social support, and coping
with high risk situations.     Subsequent sessions covered skills required for maintaining lost
weight.
         [0007]     While the combination of naltrexone and bupropion is known to be
efficacious for weight management for some patient populations, alone or in combination with
an intensive BMOD program, a need exists for an effective treatment of overweight or obesity in
subjects at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. In addition, there exists a need
for a weight management program for use in combination with naltrexone and bupropion that is
easier for patients to comply with than existing BMOD programs, but which is still efficacious,
particularly in subjects at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
                                             SUMMARY
         [0008]     An embodiment of the invention includes a method of treating a subject at
increased risk of an adverse cardiovascular outcome comprising for overweight or obesity:
identifying an overweight or obese subject at increased risk of an adverse cardiovascular
outcome; and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of sustained release
naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and sustained release bupropion, or a
                                                  -2-

pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.       In some embodiments, aid overweight or obese
subject is identified as being at increased risk of an adverse cardiovascular outcome if the
subject: a.) is diagnosed as having cardiovascular disease with at least one risk factor selected
from the group consisting of: a history of documented myocardial infarction >3 months prior to
the identification; a history of coronary revascularization including coronary artery bypass graft
surgery, stent placement, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, or laser atherectomy;
a history of carotid or peripheral revascularization, including carotid endarterectomy, lower
extremity atherosclerotic disease atherectomy, repair of abdominal aorta aneurysm, femoral or
popliteal bypass; angina with ischemic changes, ECG changes on a graded exercise test, or
positive cardiac imaging study; ankle brachial index <0.9 assessed by simple palpation within
prior 2 years of the identification; and >50% stenosis of a coronary, carotid, or lower extremity
artery within prior 2 years of the identification; and/or b.) is diagnosed as having Type 2
diabetes mellitus with at least 2 risk factors selected from the group consisting of: hypertension
controlled with or without pharmacotherapy at <145/95 mm Hg; dyslipidemia requiring
pharmacotherapy; documented low HDL cholesterol, <50 mg/dL in women or <40 mg/dL in
men, within prior 12 months of the identification; and current tobacco smoker.
         [0009]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises a lead-in 2-week period
during which the subject receive treatment according to one of two sequences: 1 week of active
study medication comprising sustained release naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and sustained release bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, once a
day followed by 1 week of placebo once a day; or 1 week of placebo followed by 1 week of
active study medication comprising sustained release naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and sustained release bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
         [0010]     In some embodiments, the subject does not have one or more characteristics
selected from the group consisting of: myocardial infarction within 3 months prior to the
identification; angina pectoris Grade III or IV as per the Canadian Cardiovascular Society
grading scheme; a clinical history of cerebrovascular disease including stroke; a history of
tachyarrhythmia other than sinus tachycardia; blood pressure >145/95 mm Hg, irrespective of
treatment with antihypertensive agents; unstable weight within 3 months prior to the
identification; planned bariatric surgery, cardiac surgery, or coronary angioplasty; severe renal
impairment defined by an estimated GFR <30 mL/min; clinical history of liver failure or
documented ALT or AST greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal; known infection with
HIV or hepatitis; chronic use or positive screen for opioids; recent drug or alcohol abuse or
                                                 -3-

dependence, with the exception of nicotine dependence, within 6 months prior to the
identification; history of seizures, including febrile seizures, cranial trauma, or other conditions
that predispose the subject to seizures; history of mania or current diagnosis of active psychosis,
active bulimia or anorexia nervosa, but not binge eating disorder; a risk for suicide attempts;
acute depressive illness including new onset of depression or acute exacerbation of symptoms,
but not stable subjects on chronic treatment for depression; any condition with life expectancy
anticipated to be less than 4 years including congestive heart failure NYHA Class 3 or 4; a
history of malignancy within the previous 5 years, not including non-melanoma skin cancer or
surgically cured cervical cancer; current use of other bupropion or naltrexone containing
products; a history of hypersensitivity or intolerance to naltrexone or bupropion; use of
monoamine oxidase inhibitors within 14 days prior to the identification; use of any
investigational drug, device, or procedure within 30 days prior to the identification; a pregnant
or breast-feeding woman, or currently trying to become pregnant, or of child-bearing potential,
including peri-menopausal women who have had a menstrual period within one year, and not
willing to practice birth control; and inability to consistently access broadband internet.
         [0011]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises providing the subject
with a web-based weight management program, a phone-based weight management program, or
a combination thereof.
         [0012]     An embodiment of the invention includes a method of treating a subject for
overweight or obesity comprising: identifying an overweight or obese subject; and administering
to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of sustained release naltrexone, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and sustained release bupropion, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in combination with a web-based weight management program, a phone
based weight management program, or a combination thereof.
         [0013]     In some embodiments, the identified subject has a BMI >30 and <45 kg/m2
with uncomplicated obesity. In some embodiments, the identified subject has a BMI of >27 and
<45 kg/m2 with dyslipidemia and/or controlled hypertension. In some embodiments, the subject
is treated for at least 26 weeks. In some embodiments, the phone-based weight management
program comprise one or more coaching calls to the subject. In some embodiments, the phone
based weight management program optionally comprises one or more web coaching tools. In
some embodiments, the web-based or phone-based weight management program provides the
subject with one or more of behavioral, nutritional or fitness education.
         [0014]     In some embodiments, the education are delivered by a trained health or
fitness coach and/or a registered dietitian. In some embodiments, the trained health or fitness
                                                  -4-

coach and/or the registered dietitian counsel the subject via the phone or via a website for the
subject, and provide one or more of the topics selected from the group consisting of tips and
motivational messages; coaching through question and answer; weekly office hours for real-time
responses to the subject's inquiries via the website; weekly educational materials; video lessons;
weight, exercise, or diet tracking with badge rewards; goal setting; progress tracking; and
communications to encourage the subject to engage in the weight management program.
        [0015]      In some embodiments, 32 mg per day of sustained release naltrexone, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and 360 mg per day of sustained release bupropion, or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is administered to the subject. In some embodiments,
the subject is administered the sustained release naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, and the sustained release bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
in a tablet containing 8 mg of sustained release naltrexone and 90 mg of sustained release
bupropion.
        [0016]      In some embodiments, the treatment with naltrexone and bupropion does not
increase the subject's risk of an adverse cardiovascular outcome. In some embodiments, the
treatment with naltrexone and bupropion decreases the subject's risk of an adverse
cardiovascular outcome.       In some embodiments, the adverse cardiovascular outcome is
cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke. In some embodiments,
the subject achieves a percentage of weight loss of at least 5%, at least 10% or at least 15%. In
some embodiments, the weight management program has a period of at least 52 weeks or at least
78 weeks.
        [0017]      In some embodiments, the subject does not receive in-person counseling as
part of a weight management program. In some embodiments, the subject does not receive more
than 5 in-person counseling sessions as part of a weight management program.              In some
embodiments, the subject does not receive an intensive behavioral modification (BMOD)
program for weight loss.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0018]      The present disclosure relates to compositions, kits, uses, systems and
methods for treating overweight and obesity using naltrexone plus bupropion, preferably in
combination with a comprehensive lifestyle intervention (CLI) program including a web-based
weight management program, a phone-based weight management program, and a combination
thereof. In some embodiments, the subject being treated for overweight and obesity are subjects
at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. In a preferred embodiment, the treatment
                                                -5-

of a subject at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes with naltrexone plus bupropion
in combination with a comprehensive web-based and/or telephone-based weight management
program results in no more major adverse cardiovascular outcomes than treatment with the web
based and/or telephone-based weight management program alone. In some embodiments, the
treatment of a subject at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes with naltrexone plus
bupropion in combination with a comprehensive web-based and/or telephone-based weight
management program surprisingly results in fewer major adverse cardiovascular outcomes than
treatment with the web-based and/or telephone-based weight management program alone.
Major adverse cardiovascular outcomes are cardiovascular death (including fatal myocardial
infarction and fatal stroke), nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or nonfatal unstable
angina requiring hospitalization.
         [0019]     In some embodiments, the subject being treated by the methods disclosed
herein is at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Subjects at increased risk of
adverse cardiovascular outcomes include subjects having a.) cardiovascular disease (confirmed
diagnosis or at high likelihood of cardiovascular disease) with at least one of the following:
history of documented myocardial infarction >3 months prior to screening; history of coronary
revascularization (i.e., coronary artery bypass graft surgery, stent placement, percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty, or laser atherectomy); history of carotid or peripheral
revascularization    (i.e., carotid endarterectomy,    lower extremity     atherosclerotic  disease
atherectomy, repair of abdominal aorta aneurysm, femoral or popliteal bypass); angina with
ischemic changes (resting ECG), ECG changes on a graded exercise test (GXT), or positive
cardiac imaging study; ankle brachial index <0.9 (by simple palpation) within prior 2 years;
>50% stenosis of a coronary, carotid, or lower extremity artery within prior 2 years; and/or b.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus with at least 2 of the following: hypertension (controlled with or
without pharmacotherapy at <145/95 mm Hg); dyslipidemia requiring pharmacotherapy;
documented low HDL cholesterol (<50 mg/dL in women or <40 mg/dL in men) within prior 12
months; current tobacco smoker.
         [0020]     In some such embodiments, the subject being treated has uncomplicated
obesity.    In some other embodiments, the subject being treated is overweight and has
dyslipidemia and/or controlled hypertension. In some embodiments, the subject being treated by
the methods disclosed herein is not at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
         [0021]     In some embodiments the treatment with naltrexone and bupropion is
combined with a weight management program. In some embodiments, the weight management
program is a web-based program. In some other embodiments, the weight management program
                                                 -6-

is a phone-based program. In some other embodiments, the weight management program is a
combination of both web-based and phone based programs. In some embodiments, the subject
does not receive more than 15, 10, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1 in-person counseling sessions as part of a
weight management program. In some embodiments, the subject does not receive any in-person
counseling sessions as part of a weight management program.
        Web-Based Weight Management Program
        [0022]     Preferably, the web-based program provides a progressive nutrition and
exercise program with goal setting and tracking tools. Each subject is assigned to a health and
fitness professional who counsels them online throughout the program. Additional educational
tools include weekly web-based informational, educational and motivational resources
supplemented by video lessons (Table 1) presented at regular intervals. Content for the program
consists of: a weekly email that announces the goals for the week, provides motivation, and
encourages continued participation; weekly goals (from email) that align with each week's
theme (Table 1), along with a detailed explanation and a strategy for achieving these goals,
placed on the MyWeightMate.com subject pages; three pieces of additional weekly content
posted to user pages (tips and educational information) to help subjects reach their weekly goals;
motivational messages throughout the week posted on participant pages; triggered event emails
sent to users based on behaviors (i.e. absence from program activity, successful logging); video
lessons provided on the MyWeightMate.com site for participants to view and archived for future
access: weekly for the first 16 weeks, biweekly for the next 12 weeks, monthly for the remaining
duration of the study, and two refresher campaigns that include 4 weekly sessions each year
during the third and fourth year of the trial. Video lessons focus on relevant topics and are
developed by subject matter experts.
                                                -7-

Table 1. Weekly Themes and Video Topics for First 16 Weeks of the Weight Management
Program
  Week Theme                             Video Lesson Topic
  1      Get Started                     Setting Yourself Up For Success: Getting Your Mind
                                         Right
  2      Perfect Portions                SMART Goals
  3      Avoid Pitfalls                  Proper Form When You Move
  4      Get More Vitamin Zzz            Healthful Substitutions for Food and Exercise
  5      Boost Your Fitness              Fitness Myths
  6      Skinny Food Secrets             Smart Strategies for Eating Less
  7      Smash Sugar Spikes              How Do You Make Time For Your Health and Why is It
        I _Psychologically                                Important?
  8      Take the Show on the Road       Accidental Exercise
  9      Take Some Pressure Off          Powering Up Your Exercise
  10     Metabolism Superchargers        Staying Fit If You Sit
  11     Clobber High Cholesterol        Healthy Choices
  12     Motivation Boosters             Breaking Weight Loss Plateaus
  13     Kick It Up                      Replacing Bad Habits With Healthy Ones
  14     Rut Busters                     The Diet Hype Trap
  15     Shore Up Your Self-             Healthy Living Guide: Live Your Best Life
         Confidence                      1
  16     Review and Renew                Boost Your Metabolism
        [0023]            The web-based weight management program provides behavioral, nutritional
and fitness education delivered by trained health and fitness coaches. The website provides a
"WeightMate Coach" who counsels the subject via the participant's individual webpage, and
provides one or more of the following: tips and motivational messages; coaching through Q&A;
weekly office hours for real-time response via the website; weekly educational materials;
content developed with subject matter experts; video lessons to supplement the weekly themes;
weight, exercise, and diet tracking with badge rewards; suggested activity and coaching tip;
communication to encourage engagement; and a contemporary website that is fun and intuitive.
        [0024]            In one embodiment, new themes and goals are introduced each Monday, with
2-3 goals of the week, relevant content and/or video lesson(s) (Table 1) are provided, and
motivational messages are provided on one or more days of the week. Optionally, additional
tips are provided one or more days during the week.             In some embodiments, video lessons
supplement the weekly educational themes. The produced video content ensures quality and
uniformity of message to subjects, and a Q&A function allows patients to ask questions with <
24 hour turnaround.
        [0025]            In some embodiments, web-based individual counseling is provided by a
coach; preferably the subject has unlimited access to coach. Preferably the coach provides a
schedule to the subject which includes weekly 'office hours' for real-time Q&A responses. The
                                                    -8-

program emphasizes weekly weigh ins with daily food and activity tracking. Preferably, the
website can track calories for each meal using a computer database of calories for specific foods
and/or meals, and save favorite foods and meals. Four reference menus based on caloric needs
and food preferences are provided. In some embodiments the subject is rewarded with badges
for meeting particular goals (e.g., for 7 days of activity logged; for 7 days of food logged; for 3
weeks of weight logged; for first 15 pounds lost; for 12 weeks of program participation; for 26
weeks of program participation; for 52 weeks of program participation; for 78 weeks of program
participation; for 5% weight loss; for 10% weight loss; for 15 % weight loss). In a preferred
embodiment, the subject periodically establishes a weight loss goal which is recorded as part of
the program. The subject's progress toward the subject's goal(s) can be provided to the subject
via the subject's webpage. The weight loss goal can be the goal for a one week, two week,
month, two month, six month, year or longer period of time. The program provides the option
for the participating subject to set a specific weight loss goal at the beginning of the program.
The program also provides the option to track and log weight loss, and the progress towards
achieving the specific goal on a daily or weekly basis. Optionally, a graphic representation of
weight loss progress is provided to the subject via the subject's webpage. Periodic encouraging
messages (e.g., badges and award notes) can be provided. Preferably, behavior-based automated
messages from trainers are provided for increased motivation and participation.
         [0026]      In some embodiments, the exercise portion of the web-based weight
management program encourages 5 days of activity and 2 days of rest, preferably on non
consecutive days (e.g. Monday and Friday).         In some embodiments, the exercise program
provides instructions on stretching, walking and other light cardio activity. Video clips can
provide educational demonstration for stretches and exercise maneuvers. The website can track
calories burned by the subject through exercise and activity logs.
         [0027]      In a preferred embodiment, the web-based weight management program does
not involve any in-person therapy or group meetings.
         Phone-Based Weight Management Program
         [0028]      In some embodiments, the telephone-based program comprises personalized
coaching through one or more phone calls. In one embodiment, the phone calls are conducted
by a dedicated coach to the subject receiving treatment. In another embodiment, the phone calls
are conducted by a registered dietitian to the subject receiving treatment.          In some such
embodiments, the phone-based program includes 6 to 15, preferably 12 scheduled calls over the
first 3 to 8, preferably 6 months of the treatment. The topics of said scheduled calls can include
cognitive behavioral coaching and nutrition coaching (See, for example, Table 2). In some such
                                                -9-

embodiments, the phone-based program includes 6 to 15, preferably 12 additional calls over the
next 3 to 8, preferably 6 months of treatment.
         [0029]     In some embodiments, the phone-based program optionally comprises on-line
coaching tools, such as an integrated web support for web coaching, including the web-based
program described above. The web coaching can include the essential practices for weight loss
and maintaining weight loss, progress tracking, and/or virtual coaching. Non-limiting examples
of the essential practices can include E-lessons, videos and podcasts, articles and games relating
to topics such as healthy cooking, setting realistic goals, and controlling stress. Non-limiting
examples of items the progress trackers can track include weight, nutrition intake, activity,
stress, biometrics, coaching calls, etc.     Non-limiting example of virtual coating can include
generating and updating of to-do list for a subject participating in the program, sending emails,
etc.
         [0030]     In some embodiments, the phone-based program can also optionally include
one or more electronic devices for wireless activity monitoring. Non-limiting example of such
electronic device is FitLinxx@ActiPed to be used in conjunction with a USB access point to
track steps, distance, calories and activity time.      The electronic device(s) can be wirelessly
synced with the web support. In one embodiment, the phone-based program is the Weight
Talk Program available from AlereTM.
         [0031]     A subject receiving the treatment of naltrexone and bupropion can enroll in
the phone-based program via various methods, including both web enrollment and phone
enrollment. In some embodiments, the phone-based program also include frontline support to
identify patients who qualify for the clinical study, discuss benefit of the phone-based program,
set realistic expectations, assist in enrollment and refer specific question to coaches.
Table 2. Exemplary Phone-based Weight Management Program Call Topics
      Call #         Call Topics
      Call 1:        Getting Started: Core Values, goal setting and tracking
      Call 2:        Reducing calories and healthy eating (with registered dietitian)
      Call 3:        Increasing physical activity
      Call 4:        Managing stress
      Call 5:        Changing unhelpful thoughts
      Call 6:        Gaining control of your environment (with registered dietitian)
      Call 7:        Developing time management skills and improving sleep
      Call 8:        Navigating difficult situations: social situations and restaurants
      Call 9:        Weight maintenance skills
      Call 10:       Rebounding from lapses
      Call 11:       Maintaining motivation
      Call 12:       Evaluation and Participant Feedback
                                                  -10-

        [0032]      In a preferred embodiment, treatment with a combination of naltrexone
sustained-release (SR)/bupropion SR (NB), alone or in conjunction with a web-based and/or
telephone-based weight management program, does not increase, or more preferably decreases,
the occurrence of major adverse cardiac events, defined as cardiovascular death, nonfatal
myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke in overweight and obese subjects, as compared to
placebo or a web-based and/or telephone-based weight management program alone. In some
embodiments, treatment with NB, alone or in conjunction with a web-based and/or telephone
based weight management program, does not increase, or more preferably decreases,                the
occurrence of one or more of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal
stroke, or nonfatal unstable angina requiring hospitalization in overweight and obese subjects, as
compared to placebo or a web-based and/or telephone-based weight management program
alone. In some embodiments, treatment with NB, alone or in conjunction with a web-based
and/or telephone-based weight management program, does not increase, or more preferably
decreases, one or more of: the occurrence of all cause mortality; the occurrence of unstable
angina requiring hospitalization; and the occurrence of coronary revascularization procedures, as
compared to placebo or a web-based and/or telephone-based weight management program
alone. In some embodiments, treatment with NB, alone or in conjunction with a web-based
and/or telephone-based weight management program, decreases body weight or improves
systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure, as compared to placebo or a web-based and/or
telephone-based weight management program alone.           In some embodiments, the individual
treated is overweight or obese, and at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
        [0033]      In some embodiments, treatment with a combination of naltrexone sustained
release (SR)/bupropion SR (NB), alone or in conjunction with a web-based and/or telephone
based weight management program, increases one or more of: the percent change in body
weight from baseline; the percentage of subjects achieving a loss of at least 5%, 10%, and 15%
of baseline body weight; and the absolute change in body weight from baseline, compared to
Usual Care (no study medication and minimal lifestyle intervention program).              In some
embodiments, treatment with NB, alone or in conjunction with a web-based and/or telephone
based weight management program, improves one or more of: cardiovascular risk factors (one
or more of waist circumference, fasting triglycerides, fasting LDL cholesterol, and fasting HDL
cholesterol); vital signs (one or more of systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure, and heart rate);
measures of glucose metabolism (one or more of fasting glucose, fasting insulin, and HOMA
IR); measurements derived from patient reported outcomes (one or more of eating behavior (e.g.
BES), sexual function (e.g. ASEX Scale), and weight-related quality of life (e.g. IWQOL-Lite)),
                                                -11-

as compared to Usual Care (no study medication and minimal lifestyle intervention program).
In some embodiments, the above mentioned increases or improvements are measured at week 26
of treatment in comparison to baseline, in some embodiments the measurements are at week 52
or 78 of treatment in comparison to baseline. In some embodiments that treated individual is
female or male, 18 to 60 years, inclusive, of age, with a BMI >30 and <45 kg/m 2 for subjects
with uncomplicated obesity, and a BMI of >27 and <45 kg/m 2 for subjects who are overweight
or obese and have dyslipidemia and/or controlled hypertension.         In some embodiments the
treated individual is overweight or obese, and at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular
outcomes.     In some embodiments, the treated individual is not overweight or obese, and at
increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
        [0034]       In some embodiments, treatment with a combination of naltrexone sustained
release (SR)/bupropion SR (NB), in conjunction with a web-based and/or telephone-based
weight management program, is the same or increases one or more of: the percent change in
body weight from baseline; the percentage of subjects achieving a loss of at least 5%, 10%, and
 15% of baseline body weight; and the absolute change in body weight from baseline, compared
to NB in conjunction with an intensive behavioral modification (BMOD) program for weight
loss delivered in person.. In some embodiments, treatment with NB, alone or in conjunction
with a web-based and/or telephone-based weight management program, is the same or improves
one or more of: cardiovascular risk factors (one or more of waist circumference, fasting
triglycerides, fasting LDL cholesterol, and fasting HDL cholesterol); vital signs (one or more of
systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure, and heart rate); measures of glucose metabolism (one or
more of fasting glucose, fasting insulin, and HOMA-IR); measurements derived from patient
reported outcomes (one or more of eating behavior (e.g. BES), sexual function (e.g. ASEX
Scale), and weight-related quality of life (e.g. IWQOL-Lite)), as compared to NB in conjunction
with an intensive behavioral modification (BMOD) program for weight loss delivered in person.
In some embodiments, the above mentioned increases or improvements are measured at week 26
of treatment in comparison to baseline, in some embodiments the measurements are at week 52
or 78 of treatment in comparison to baseline. In some embodiments that treated individual is
female or male, 18 to 60 years, inclusive, of age, with a BMI >30 and <45 kg/m 2 for subjects
with uncomplicated obesity, and a BMI of >27 and <45 kg/m 2 for subjects who are overweight
or obese and have dyslipidemia and/or controlled hypertension.         In some embodiments the
treated individual is overweight or obese, and at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular
outcomes.     In some embodiments, the treated individual is not overweight or obese, and at
increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
                                                 -12-

         [0035]      In some embodiments, the individual has a body mass index (BMI) of at least
25 kg/m 2 . In some embodiments, the individual has a BMI of at least 30 kg/m 2 . In some
embodiments, the individual has a BMI of at least 40 kg/m 2 .              In some embodiments, the
individual has a BMI of less than 25 kg/m 2 , or develops a BMI less than 25 kg/m 2 during the
course of administration of naltrexone and bupropion.             In these embodiments, it may be
beneficial for health or cosmetic purposes to mitigate subsequent weight gain or to promote
weight loss, thereby reducing the BMI even further. In some embodiments, the individual has
been diagnosed by a physician as being overweight or obese.                In some embodiments, the
individual is identified, including self-identified, as overweight or obese, or is identified as
having been diagnosed as overweight or obese.              In some embodiments, the individual is
suffering from dyslipidemia and/or controlled hypertension in addition to being overweight, or
in addition to being obese.
         [0036]      In some embodiments, the promotion of weight loss is measured by a percent
change from a baseline body weight. In some of these embodiments, the amount of weight loss
                                                               2    2
is, is about, is at least, is at least about 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%,     %,   .5%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8 %,
9%, 10%, 12%, 15%, or more of initial body weight, or a range defined by any two of the
preceding values.      In some embodiments, the promotion of weight loss is measured as a
reduction in weight gain relative to the amount of weight gain experienced by the relevant
control, and the amount of reduction in weight gain is, is about, is at least, is at least about, 2%,
5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 4 0%, 50%, 6 0%,           7 0%, 8 0%, 9
                                                                       0%,  100%, 105%, 110%, 115%,
120%, or more, or a range defined by any two of the preceding values.
         [0037]      In some embodiments, the dosage is adjusted so that the patient loses weight
at a rate of about 3% of baseline body weight every six months. However, the rate of weight
loss for a patient may be adjusted by the treating physician based on the patient's particular
needs.
         [0038]      In some embodiments, the mitigation of weight gain or promotion of weight
loss occurs by increasing satiety in the individual.        In some embodiments, the mitigation of
weight gain or promotion of weight loss occurs by suppressing the appetite of the individual. In
some embodiments, the treatment comprises instituting a regimen of diet and/or increased
activity.
         [0039]      In some embodiments, the naltrexone or combination therapy, including
naltrexone in combination with bupropion or fluoxetine, is in an amount sufficient to affect
weight loss, reduce a cardiovascular risk factor, increase insulin sensitivity, reduce food
cravings, treat a visceral fat condition, mitigate weight gain or promote weight loss during
                                                   -13-

smoking cessation, or provide weight loss therapy in patients with major depression. Non
limiting examples of such methods of treatment are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,375,111 and
7,462,626; in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2007/0275970, 2007/0270450, 2007/0117827,
2007/0179168, 2008/0214592, 2007/0128298, and 2007/0129283; in U.S. Patent Application
Nos. 12/751970, 61/167486, and 61/293844; and in WO 2009/158114, each of which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes, including without
limitation for the purpose of describing methods of affecting weight loss, reducing
cardiovascular risk factors, increasing insulin sensitivity, reducing food cravings, treating
visceral fat conditions, mitigating weight gain or promoting weight loss during smoking
cessation, and providing weight loss therapy in patients with major depression.                In some
embodiments, the cardiovascular risk factor includes one or more of the following: total
cholesterol level, LDL cholesterol level, HDL cholesterol level, triglyceride level, glucose level,
and insulin level. In some embodiments, the cardiovascular risk factor includes one or more of
the following: total cholesterol level, HDL cholesterol level, and triglyceride level.
         [0040]     In some embodiments, the increased efficacy of a weight loss treatment
described herein comprises an improvement in an outcome measure. For example, in some
embodiments, the increased efficacy increases the amount of weight loss.                      In some
embodiments, the increase in efficacy decreases the frequency or severity of adverse events,
including but not limited to nausea, constipation, vomiting, dizziness, dry mouth, headache, and
insomnia. In some embodiments, the increased efficacy improves another secondary endpoint,
including but not limited to waist circumference, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP)
levels, triglyceride levels, HDL cholesterol levels or the ratio of LDL/HDL cholesterol levels.
As one of skill in the art recognizes, in some circumstances, it is desirable to decrease waist
circumference, hs-CRP levels, triglyceride levels, and the ratio of LDL/HDL cholesterol levels,
and to increase HDL cholesterol levels. In some embodiments, the improvement in the outcome
measure is, is about, is at least, or is at least about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, 20 30, 40, 50, 60,
70, 80, 90, or 100%, or within a range defined by any two of these values as compared to
baseline or the relevant control.
         [0041]     In some embodiments, naltrexone or naltrexone and bupropion are each
administered once per day. In some embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion are each divided
into equal doses and administered more than once per day. In some embodiments, naltrexone
and bupropion are each divided into unequal doses and administered more than once per day. In
some embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion are divided into a different number of doses and
                                                   -14-

are administered a different number of times per day. In one such embodiment, the dose of one
of naltrexone or bupropion is divided, while the dose of the other is not.
        [0042]      In some embodiments, one or both of naltrexone and bupropion is
administered one, two, three, four, or more times per day. Either or both compounds can be
administered less than once per day, for example once every 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
or 14 days, or every 1 or 2 weeks, or a range defined by any two of the preceding values. In
some embodiments, the number of administrations per day is constant (e.g., one time per day).
In other embodiments, the number of administrations is variable. The number of administrations
may change depending on effectiveness of the dosage form, observed side effects, external
factors (e.g., a change in another medication), or the length of time that the dosage form has
been administered.
        [0043]      In some embodiments, the daily dose of naltrexone can range from about 4
mg to about 50 mg, or about 4 mg to about 32 mg, or about 8 mg to about 32 mg, or about 8 mg
to about 16 mg. In some embodiments, the daily dose is about 4 mg, about 8 mg, about 12 mg,
about 16 mg, about 32 mg, or about 48 mg of naltrexone, or a range defined by any two of the
preceding values.     The selection of a particular dosage may be based on the weight of the
patient. The selection of a particular dosage may be based on the identity, dosage, and/or dosing
schedule of another co-administered compound. However, in some embodiments, it may be
necessary to use dosages outside these ranges.        In some embodiments, the daily dose is
administered in a single oral dosage form. In some embodiments, the daily dose of naltrexone is
the same, and in some embodiments, the daily dose is different.
        [0044]      In some embodiments, the daily dose of bupropion can range from about 30
mg to about 500 mg, or about 30 mg to about 360 mg, or about 90 mg to about 360 mg. In some
embodiments, the daily dose is about 30 mg, about 90 mg, about 180 mg, about 360 mg, or
about 450 mg of bupropion, or a range defined by any two of the preceding values.              The
selection of a particular dosage may be based on the weight of the patient. The selection of a
particular dosage may be based on the identity, dosage and/or dosing schedule of another co
administered compound. However, in some embodiments, it may be necessary to use dosages
outside these ranges.    In some embodiments, the daily dose is administered in a single oral
dosage form. In some embodiments, the daily dose of bupropion is the same, and in some
embodiments, the daily dose is different.
        [0045]      The compositions described herein may be distributed, provided to a patient
for self-administration, or administered to an individual. In some embodiments, the combined
naltrexone/bupropion therapies include a third compound.
                                               -15-

         [0046]     In some embodiments,         naltrexone and/or bupropion are provided or
administered as an oral dosage form. In some embodiments, the oral dosage form is in the form
of a pill, tablet, core, capsule, caplet, loose powder, solution, or suspension. In a preferred
embodiment, the oral dosage form is in the form of a pill, tablet, or capsule.              In some
embodiments, the combined naltrexone/bupropion therapy is provided in a single oral dosage
form. In some embodiments, the oral dosage form is in the form of a trilayer tablet as described
in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008/0113026, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety and for all purposes, including without limitation for the purpose of describing trilayer
tablets, methods of making and formulating trilayer tablets, and methods of administering them.
         [0047]     In some embodiments, at least one of naltrexone and bupropion is
administered with varying frequency during treatment.          In some of these embodiments, the
varying frequency comprises a decreased frequency over time. For example, one or both of
naltrexone and bupropion can be initially administered more than once per day, followed by
administration only once per day at a later point in treatment. In some embodiments, the daily
dosage of at least one of naltrexone and bupropion is consistent despite the varying frequency of
administration.    For example, in some embodiments, two tablets of each of naltrexone and
bupropion are initially administered twice per day, while four tablets of each of naltrexone and
bupropion are administered once per day at a later point in treatment. Alternatively, in some
embodiments, one or two tablets of each of naltrexone and bupropion are administered at a later
point in treatment, where the one or two tablets have an equivalent total daily dosage as the two
tablets each of naltrexone and bupropion initially administered twice per day.
         [0048]     In some embodiments where one or both of naltrexone and bupropion are
administered less than once per day in a controlled release or sustained release (SR) formulation,
the dose is selected so that the patient receives a daily dose that is about the same as a daily dose
described herein.
         [0049]     In some embodiments, the naltrexone, alone or in a combination treatment, is
not a sequestered form of naltrexone. For example, in some embodiments, naltrexone is in a
non-sequestered, controlled release formulation. In some embodiments, naltrexone is a non
sequestered, sustained release formulation.       In preferred embodiments, at least 50% of the
naltrexone is released within 24 hours of administration.
         [0050]     In some embodiments, at least one of naltrexone or bupropion is administered
in consistent daily dosages throughout the period of treatment. In some embodiments, at least
one of naltrexone or bupropion is administered in varying daily dosages during the period of
treatment. In some of these embodiments, the daily dosages comprise increasing daily dosages
                                                 -16-

over time. In some of these embodiments, the daily dosages comprise decreasing daily dosages
over time.
        [0051]      In   some   embodiments,      naltrexone     and   bupropion     are   administered
individually.   In some embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion are administered in a single
pharmaceutical composition comprising naltrexone and bupropion.             In some embodiments, at
least one of naltrexone or bupropion is in a sustained release or controlled release formulation.
For example, sustained release forms of naltrexone are described in U.S. Patent Publication No.
2007/0281021, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes,
including without limitation for the purpose of describing sustained release forms of naltrexone
and bupropion, methods of making and formulating them into suitable dosage forms, and
methods of administering them. In some embodiments, at least one of naltrexone or bupropion
is administered with a physiologically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient, or a combination
thereof. Non-limiting examples of naltrexone/bupropion combinations, formulations thereof,
and methods of administering them are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,375,111 and 7,462,626,
both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes,
including without limitation for the purpose of describing combinations of naltrexone and
bupropion, methods of making and formulating them into suitable dosage forms, and methods of
administering them.       Reference herein to the use or administration of naltrexone and
naltrexone/bupropion combinations is understood to include all modes of administration
disclosed or referred to herein, including without limitation separate                   administration,
administration in a single dosage form, administration in the form of salts, and/or metabolites,
and/or administration in sustained release forms. Techniques for formulation and administration
of the compounds of the instant application may be found in "Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences," Mack Publishing Co., Easton, PA, 18th edition, 1990, which is incorporated herein
by reference in its entirety.
        [0052]      In some embodiments, naltrexone is administered prior to bupropion.               In
some embodiments, naltrexone is administered subsequent to bupropion. In some embodiments,
naltrexone and bupropion are co-administered.          As used herein, co-administration includes
administration in a single dosage form, or separate dosage forms that are administered at, or
nearly at, the same time.
        [0053]      In some embodiments, the administration of naltrexone and bupropion is
continued for a period of, or of about, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, 20, 24, 36, 48, or 52 weeks, or a
range defined by any two of the preceding values. In some embodiments, the administration of
naltrexone and bupropion is continued until the reduction in symptoms of a disease, disorder, or
                                                 -17-

condition is stabilized for a period of, or of about, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or more weeks, or a range
defined by any two of the preceding values.           For example, in some embodiments, the
administration of a combined naltrexone/bupropion therapy is continued until the mitigation of
weight gain or promotion of weight loss in an individual is stabilized for a period of, or of about,
 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or more weeks, or a range defined by any two of the preceding values. In some
embodiments, administration of naltrexone, or naltrexone and bupropion, is continued until the
individual no longer needs a treatment.
          [0054]      In some embodiments, "administering"       a drug includes an individual
obtaining and taking a drug on their own. For example, in some embodiments, an individual
obtains a drug from a pharmacy and self-administers the drug in accordance with the methods
provided herein.
          [0055]      In some embodiments, the present invention relates to a kit. The kit may
include one or more unit dosage forms comprising naltrexone, bupropion, or naltrexone and
bupropion. The unit dosage forms may be of an oral formulation. For example, the unit dosage
forms may comprise pills, tablets, or capsules. The kit may include a plurality of unit dosage
forms. In some embodiments, the unit dosage forms are in a container. In some embodiments,
the dosage forms are single oral dosage forms comprising naltrexone and bupropion or
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
          [0056]      The  methods,   compositions   and kits    disclosed herein may       include
information. The information may be in a form prescribed by a governmental agency regulating
the manufacture, use, or sale of pharmaceuticals, which notice is reflective of approval by the
agency of the form of the drug for human or veterinary administration. Such information, for
example, may be the labeling approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
prescription drugs, or the approved product insert.       The information can include required
information regarding dose and dosage forms, administration schedules and routes of
administration, adverse events, contraindications, warning and precautions, drug interactions,
and use in specific populations (see, e.g., 21 C.F.R.  201.57 which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety), and in some embodiments is required to be present on or associated
with the drug for sale of the drug. Dosage forms comprising a sustained-release naltrexone
formulation of the invention formulated in a compatible pharmaceutical carrier may also be
prepared, placed in an appropriate container, and labeled for treatment of an indicated condition.
In some embodiments, a kit is for sale of a prescription drug requiring the approval of and
subject to the regulations of a governmental agency, such as the Food and Drug Administration
of the United States.      In some embodiments, the kit comprises the label or product insert
                                                -18-

required by the agency, such as the FDA, for sale of the kit to consumers, for example in the
U.S.
        [0057]     The information may comprise instructions to administer the unit dosage
form at a dosage of about 4 mg, about 8 mg, about 12 mg, about 16 mg, about 32 mg, or about
48 mg of naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The information may
comprise instructions to administer the unit dosage form at a dosage of about 30 mg, about 90
mg, about 180 mg, about 360 mg, or about 450 mg of bupropion or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.    These instructions may be provided in a variety of ways.           The
information may comprise instructions about when to administer the unit dosage forms. For
example, the information may comprise instructions about when to administer the unit dosage
forms relative to the administration of another medication or food. In preferred embodiments,
the information instructs an individual to take naltrexone, or naltrexone and bupropion, with
food, preferably a meal.
        [0058]     Some embodiments include information, preferably printed, that taking
naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof with food results in an increase in the
bioavailability of naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof compared to taking
the same amount of naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof without food.
Some embodiments include information, preferably printed, that taking bupropion or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof with food results in an increase in the bioavailability of
bupropion or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof compared to taking the same amount of
bupropion or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof without food.         Some embodiments
include   information, preferably printed, that taking naltrexone          and bupropion,     or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, with food results in an increase in the bioavailability
of naltrexone and/or bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, compared to
taking the same amount of naltrexone and bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof, without food. Some embodiments include information, preferably printed, that taking
naltrexone, and/or bupropion or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof with food results in
fewer or less severe drug associated adverse events than taking the same amount of naltrexone
and bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, without food.             In some
embodiments, the adverse events are gastrointestinal events. In some embodiments, information
regarding bioavailability, adverse events, or instructions on administration regimes are provided
to a subject, a dosage form comprising the medication described in the information is provided
to the subject, and the dosage form is administered in accordance to the information. In some
                                                -19-

embodiments the subject is a patient in need of the medication. In some embodiments the
medication is administered as a therapy for a disease as described herein.
         [0059]     In some embodiments, the methods, compositions and kits disclosed herein
may include information regarding enrolling and/or accessing a web-based and/or telephone
based weight management program. In some embodiments, the enrollment in a web-based
and/or telephone-based weight management program is a requirement of obtaining the treatment
medication.     In some embodiments, the enrollment in a web-based and/or telephone-based
weight management program is permitted only after obtaining a prescription for the treatment
medication or the actual medication. In some embodiments, the method of treatment comprises
enrolling in a web-based and/or telephone-based weight management program prior to and/or as
a condition of receiving the treatment medication.       In some embodiments, the information
includes a unique login or enrollment key for enrolling and/or accessing a web-based and/or
telephone-based weight management program.
         [0060]     Instructions and/or information may be present in a variety of forms,
including printed information on a suitable medium or substrate (e.g., a piece or pieces of paper
on which the information is printed), computer readable medium (e.g., diskette, CD, etc. on
which the information has been recorded), or a website address that may be accessed via the
internet. Printed information may, for example, be provided on a label associated with a drug
product, on the container for a drug product, packaged with a drug product, or separately given
to the patient apart from a drug product, or provided in manner that the patient can
independently obtain the information (e.g., a website).        Printed information may also be
provided to a medical caregiver involved in treatment of the patient. In some embodiments, the
information is provided to a person orally.
         [0061]      Some embodiments comprise a therapeutic package suitable for commercial
sale. Some embodiments comprise a container. The container can be in any conventional shape
or form as known in the art which is made of a pharmaceutically acceptable material, for
example a paper or cardboard box, a glass or plastic bottle or jar, a re-sealable bag (e.g., to hold
a "refill" of tablets for placement into a different container), or a blister pack with individual
dosages for pressing out of the pack according to a therapeutic schedule.           The container
employed can depend on the exact dosage form involved, e.g., a conventional cardboard box
would not generally be used to hold a liquid suspension. It is feasible that more than one
container can be used together in a single package to market a single dosage form. For example,
tablets may be contained in a bottle which is in turn contained within a box. Non-limiting
examples of packs and dispensers as well as oral dosage forms are disclosed in U.S. Patent
                                               -20-

Publication Nos. 2008/0110792 and 2008/0113026, both of which are hereby incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes, including without limitation for the
purpose of describing combinations of naltrexone and bupropion, methods of making and
formulating them into suitable dosage forms, methods of packing and dispensing them, and
methods of administering them.
         [0062]     The information can be associated with the container, for example, by being:
written on a label (e.g., the prescription label or a separate label) adhesively affixed to a bottle
containing a dosage form described herein; included inside a container as a written package
insert, such as inside a box which contains unit dose packets; applied directly to the container
such as being printed on the wall of a box; or attached as by being tied or taped, e.g., as an
instructional card affixed to the neck of a bottle via a string, cord or other line, lanyard or tether
type device. The information may be printed directly on a unit dose pack or blister pack or
blister card.
         [0063]     The term "bupropion" may be used in a general way herein to refer to a free
base of bupropion, a pharmaceutically acceptable bupropion salt (including anhydrous forms,
e.g.,    anhydrous     bupropion),     a   bupropion      metabolite     (e.g.,    hydroxybupropion,
threohydrobupropion, and erythrohydrobupropion), a bupropion isomer, or mixtures thereof.
         [0064]     The term "naltrexone" may be used in a general way herein to refer to a free
base of naltrexone, a pharmaceutically acceptable naltrexone salt (including hydrates and
anhydrous     forms, e.g.,   naltrexone hydrochloride      dihydrate and        anhydrous   naltrexone
hydrochloride), a naltrexone metabolite, a naltrexone isomer, or mixtures thereof.
         [0065]     The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt," as used herein, refers to a
formulation of a compound that does not cause significant irritation to an organism to which it is
administered and does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound.
Pharmaceutical salts can be obtained by routine experimentation. Non-limiting examples of
pharmaceutically acceptable salts include bupropion hydrochloride, radafaxine hydrochloride,
naltrexone hydrochloride, and 6-P naltrexol hydrochloride.
         [0066]     Throughout the present disclosure, when a particular compound is mentioned
by name, for example, bupropion or naltrexone, it is understood that the scope of the present
disclosure encompasses pharmaceutically acceptable salts, esters, amides, or metabolites of the
named compound. For example, in any of the embodiments herein, an active metabolite of
naltrexone (e.g., 6-P naltrexol) can be used in combination with, or instead of, naltrexone. In
any of the embodiments herein, an active metabolite of bupropion,                      including S,S
hydroxybupropion (i.e., radafaxine), can be used in combination with, or instead of, bupropion.
                                                -21-

         [0067]     The term "sustained release," as used herein, has its ordinary meaning as
understood by those skilled in the art and thus includes, by way of non-limiting example, the
controlled release of a drug from a dosage form over an extended period of time. For example,
in some embodiments, sustained-release dosage forms are those that have a release rate that is
slower that of a comparable immediate release form, e.g., less than 80% of the release rate of an
immediate-release dosage form.
         [0068]     An immediate-release naltrexone formulation appropriate for use as a
reference    standard   is the immediate-release      naltrexone   formulation, widely available
commercially as the REVIA@ brand of naltrexone hydrochloride, or an equivalent thereof. An
immediate-release bupropion formulation appropriate for use as a reference standard is the
immediate-release      bupropion     formulation,    widely   available   commercially      as   the
WELLBUTRIN@ brand of bupropion, or an equivalent thereof. The U.S. government regulates
the manner in which prescription drugs can be labeled and thus reference herein to the REVIA@
brand of naltrexone hydrochloride and WELLBUTRIN@ brand of bupropion have well-known,
fixed, and definite meanings to those skilled in the art.
         [0069]     The term "oral dosage form," as used herein, has its ordinary meaning as
understood by those skilled in the art and thus includes, by way of non-limiting example, a
formulation of a drug or drugs in a form administrable to a human, including pills, tablets, cores,
capsules, caplets, loose powder, solutions, and suspensions.
         [0070]     The terms "mitigate" or "mitigation" of weight gain, as used herein, include
preventing or decreasing the amount of weight gain associated, e.g., with the administration of a
drug or a change in life activity. In some embodiments, mitigation of weight gain is measured
relative to the amount of weight gain typically experienced when only one or neither of
naltrexone or bupropion is administered.
         [0071]     The term "promotion" of weight loss, as used herein, includes causing weight
loss relative to a baseline weight for a least a portion of the period of treatment. This includes
an individual that initially gains some weight, but during the course of treatment loses weight
relative to a baseline prior to beginning treatment, as well as individuals that regain a portion or
all of the weight that is lost by the end of the treatment period. In a preferred embodiment, at
the end of the treatment period, the individual has lost weight relative to a baseline.         In a
preferred embodiment, mitigation of weight gain or promotion of weight loss in a patient
administered naltrexone and bupropion is greater than when neither or only one of naltrexone or
bupropion is administered, and more preferably an at least additive, or better than additive, or
synergistic, effect of administering the two compounds is achieved.
                                                -22-

         [0072]      In any of the embodiments described herein, methods of treatment can
alternatively entail use claims, such as Swiss-type use claims. For example, a method of treating
overweight or obesity with a composition can alternatively entail the use of a composition in the
manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of overweight or obesity, or the use of a
composition for the treatment of overweight or obesity.
         [0073]      It is understood by those of skill in the art that numerous and various
modifications can be made without departing from the spirit of the present invention. Therefore,
it should be clearly understood that the embodiments of the present invention disclosed herein
are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Any
reference referred to herein is incorporated by reference for the material discussed herein, and in
its entirety.
                                               EXAMPLES
         [0074]      The examples below are non-limiting and are merely representative of
various aspects of the invention.
         [0075]      Example 1 summarizes the protocol for a clinical study demonstrating that
treatment with Naltrexone SR/Bupropion SR does not increase or decreases the occurrence of
Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (MACE) in overweight and obese subjects with
cardiovascular risk factors.
                                               Example 1
   TITLE
   A Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study Assessing the Occurrence of
   Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (MACE) in Overweight and Obese Subjects With
   Cardiovascular Risk Factors Receiving Naltrexone SR/Bupropion SR
   PRIMARY OBJECTIVE
      * Demonstrate that 32 mg naltrexone sustained-release (SR)/360 mg bupropion SR (NB32) is
          no worse, or better compared to placebo on the occurrence of MACE, defined as
          cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke in overweight and
          obese subjects.
   SECONDARY OBJECTIVES
      * Demonstrate NB32 is no worse or better compared to placebo on the occurrence of
          cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or nonfatal unstable
          angina requiring hospitalization in overweight and obese subjects.
      * Demonstrate NB32 is no worse or better compared to placebo on the occurrence of each of
          the components of the primary objective in overweight and obese subjects.
   OTHER OBJECTIVES
      * Demonstrate that NB32 no worse or better than placebo on:
           o the occurrence of all cause mortality
           o the occurrence of unstable angina requiring hospitalization
           o the occurrence of coronary revascularization procedures
           o change in body weight
                                                   -23-

       o    change in systolic and diastolic blood pressure
STUDY DESIGN
  * This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study measuring the
      occurrence of MACE in overweight and obese subjects at increased risk of adverse
      cardiovascular outcomes receiving NB32.
  * Approximately 9,880 subjects are enrolled into a double-blind lead-in period to identify
      subjects who do not tolerate treatment with low dose NB well or who exhibit other
      characteristics predictive of lack of compliance. At initiation of the lead-in period, subjects
      are randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to one of two treatment sequences: 1 week of active
      study medication (1 tablet per day) followed by 1 week of placebo (1 tablet per day), or 1
      week of placebo followed by 1 week of active study medication. Eligible subjects are
      subsequently randomized to treatment with either NB32 or placebo in a 1:1 ratio. The
      duration of the randomized treatment period (or subject follow-up period for those who
      discontinue study medication early) is estimated to be between 2-4 years for most subjects.
  * Subject enrollment may occur in two stages, with approximately 6,850 subjects enrolled to
      support accrual of sufficient events in randomized subjects for the interim analysis, and
      approximately 3,030 subjects subsequently enrolled to complete the study. Events in
      randomized subjects from both stages of enrollment support the final analysis. Additional
      subjects may be recruited if withdrawal rates during the lead-in period are greater than
      anticipated.
  * The study is conducted at approximately 300 centers.
  * The study consists of three periods:
    1) Screening Period (starting at Visit 1, Screen, with informed consent): up to 2 weeks to
    verify eligibility prior to the first dose of study medication in the lead-in period.
    2) Lead-in Period (starting at Visit 2, Week -2): double-blind, 2-week period during which
    the subjects receive treatment according to one of two sequences: 1 week of active study
    medication (8 mg naltrexone SR/90 mg bupropion SR [NB]) once a day followed by 1 week
    of placebo once a day; or 1 week of placebo followed by 1 week of active study medication.
    Subjects are randomly assigned to NB or placebo for the lead-in period using a centralized
    Interactive Voice or Web Response System (IVRS/IWRS). Subjects are also required to
    record dietary intake information daily during this 2-week lead-in period. Regular use of food
    diaries (e.g., entries logged for a minimum of 10 out of 14 days) and study medication
    compliance (e.g., 10 out of 14 pills taken) is required for randomization to treatment.
    Subjects who discontinue study medication treatment or who had a suspected MACE event
    during the lead-in period are not eligible for randomization to treatment or participation in
    subsequent study procedures.
    3) Treatment Period (starting at Visit 3, Day 1): double-blind, randomized period during
    which the subjects who completed the lead-in period and satisfied inclusion/exclusion criteria
    receive active study medication or placebo. The treatment period starts upon randomization at
    Visit 3 (Day 1). Randomized treatment assignment is via a centralized IVRS/IWRS. Each site
    is identified by a unique number, and each subject has a unique identifier assigned.
       a) At Visit 6 (Week 16) there is an evaluation of weight loss and blood pressure changes
       relative to baseline observations. The target weight loss is >5% with expected minimum
       weight loss at 16 weeks of >2%. Subjects should be discontinued from study medication at
       Week 16 if:
       they have not lost at least 2% of their body weight or
       they are experiencing sustained (e.g., at 2 or more visits) increases in blood pressure
        (systolic or diastolic) of >10 mm Hg. If the Investigator suspects that an elevated blood
       pressure measurement may be spurious, subjects should not be discontinued until the
        elevated measurement is confirmed within 4 weeks.
                                                    -24-

         b) All subjects participate in a comprehensive web-based weight management program as
         detailed above. Subjects participate in the weight management program through
         completion of study procedures, regardless of whether they are taking study medication.
         c) Every other month between visits past Visit 7 (Week 26), subjects are asked to answer
         specific questions pertaining to compliance and hospitalizations (potential MACE or
         serious adverse events [SAEs]), using an internet- or telephone-based data collection
         system.
         d) All randomized subjects who discontinue study medication early complete the End-of
         Treatment Visit procedures and continue to participate in the study for the remainder of the
         trial for collection of MACE data. Subjects are asked to come to the study site at their
         scheduled visits and complete the internet- or telephone-based data collection every other
         month between visits past Visit 7 (Week 26) even though they are no longer taking study
         medication.
STUDY POPULATION
Overweight and obese subjects at increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes are eligible to
participate in this study. Approximately 9,880 subjects are enrolled into the double-blind lead-in
period, and of those it is anticipated that 9,190 are randomized into the double-blind treatment
period (i.e., approximately 7% of subjects are expected to discontinue the study during the lead-in
period).
Inclusion Criteria
Subjects must meet all of the following inclusion criteria to be eligible for participation in this
study.
    1. >50 years of age (women) or 45 years of age (men)
    2. Body mass index (BMI) 27 kg/m2 and S50 kg/m2
    3. Waist circumference 88 cm (women) or 102 cm (men)
    4. At increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes:
         a. Cardiovascular disease (confirmed diagnosis or at high likelihood of cardiovascular
            disease) with at least one of the following:
              - History of documented myocardial infarction >3 months prior to screening
              - History of coronary revascularization (i.e., coronary artery bypass graft surgery, stent
              placement, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, or laser atherectomy)
              - History of carotid or peripheral revascularization (i.e., carotid endarterectomy, lower
              extremity atherosclerotic disease atherectomy, repair of abdominal aorta aneurysm,
              femoral or popliteal bypass)
                                                    -25-

              - Angina with ischemic changes (resting ECG), ECG changes on a graded exercise test
              (GXT), or positive cardiac imaging study
              *Ankle brachial index <0.9 (by simple palpation) within prior 2 years
              * >50% stenosis of a coronary, carotid, or lower extremity artery within prior 2 years
                                        and/or
         b. Type 2 diabetes mellitus with at least 2 of the following:
              - Hypertension (controlled with or without pharmacotherapy at <145/95 mm Hg)
              - Dyslipidemia requiring pharmacotherapy
              - Documented low HDL cholesterol (<50 mg/dL in women or <40 mg/dL in men)
              within prior 12 months
              - Current tobacco smoker.
Randomization of subjects with cardiovascular disease is targeted to be approximately 30% of all
subjects randomized to study medication. Randomization of males with age >45 to <50 is targeted
to be approximatel25% of all male subjects randomized to study medication, and randomization of
females with age >50 to <55 is targeted to be approximately 25% of all female subjects randomized
to study medication. The Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) may recommend adjusting these
percentages, or other enrollment criteria, during the study conduct based on actual event rate
observed and the overall distribution of the study population as it accrues.
Exclusion Criteria
     1. Myocardial infarction within 3 months prior to screening
    2. Angina pectoris Grade III or IV as per the Canadian Cardiovascular Society grading scheme
        (Table 3)
    3. Clinical history of cerebrovascular disease (stroke)
    4. History of tachyarrhythmia other than sinus tachycardia
    5. Blood pressure >145/95 mm Hg, irrespective of treatment with antihypertensive agents
    6. Unstable weight within 3 months prior to screening (e.g., weight gain or loss of >3%)
    7. Planned bariatric surgery, cardiac surgery, or coronary angioplasty
    8. Severe renal impairment defined by an estimated GFR <30 mL/min
    9. Clinical history of liver failure or documented ALT or AST greater than 3 times the upper
        limit of normal (ULN)
     10. Known infection with HIV or hepatitis
     11. Chronic use or positive screen for opioids
     12. Recent drug or alcohol abuse or dependence (with the exception of nicotine dependence)
        within 6 months prior to screening
     13. History of seizures (including febrile seizures), cranial trauma, or other conditions that
        predispose the subject to seizures
     14. History of mania or current diagnosis of active psychosis, active bulimia or anorexia
        nervosa (binge eating disorder is not exclusionary)
     15. At risk for suicide attempts based on the judgment of the Investigator
     16. Acute depressive illness including new onset of depression or acute exacerbation of
        symptoms (stable subjects on chronic treatment for depression are not excluded)
     17. Any condition with life expectancy anticipated to be less than 4 years (e.g., congestive
        heart failure NYHA Class 3 or 4; Table 4)
     18. History of malignancy within the previous 5 years, with exception of non-melanoma skin
        cancer or surgically cured cervical cancer
     19. Current use of other bupropion or naltrexone containing products
    20. History of hypersensitivity or intolerance to naltrexone or bupropion
    21. Use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors within 14 days prior to screening
    22. Use of any investigational drug, device, or procedure within 30 days prior to screening
    23. Pregnant or breast-feeding women, or currently trying to become pregnant, or of child
        bearing potential (including peri-menopausal women who have had a menstrual period
        within one year) and not willing to practice birth control
    24. Inability to consistently access broadband internet
    25. Employment by the Sponsor or the study site, or co- habitation with another individual
                                                   -26-

        enrolled in the study
STUDY MEDICATIONS
   * The study medication (NB and placebo) is provided as tablets. Each active tablet contains 8
        mg naltrexone SR/90 mg bupropion SR (8/90). All tablets, including placebo, are identical
        in appearance to maintain blinding. Dose escalation occurs during the first 4 weeks of the
        treatment period, as shown in the table below.
   * Route of Administration: Oral. Doses can be taken with or without food.
                             Lead-in Period                               Treatment Period
  Dose Schedule           WWeek                                            2         WeekL      Wiek 4 imLough
                             Vek-2            1e
                                                  Days 1-7)        Days\-14)             -    )  e      f study
  T1is*                      ON             N                            1B I        4. 70 N       J         B
                            I&1aNB   1 tab P30   1 -t NB, r        1 tab NB r    2 tab NB     r    t     NB or
                          or PB        or NB         PBO               PBO            PBO            PBO
                              -           -           -            I        er    1IbNB1ab
                                                                                        N    r   2 tabs  NB sr
                                                                        2PB
                                                                       PBO                           PBO
  'Duses  shown are of sulexone SR-bupfpion SR NBb      -Tab-Tet;?BO=phmbo.
STUDY PROCEDURES
See Schedule of Study Procedures (Appendix 1).
ADVERSE EVENT COLLECTION
Potential cardiovascular events occurring during the lead-in and randomized treatment period of
the study are collected and subjected to adjudication by an independent Clinical Endpoint
Committee (CEC) to identify those events that meet the MACE endpoint definition. Deaths and
potential cardiovascular events specified in this trial as endpoint events are exempted from the
usual expedited regulatory reporting requirements, in keeping with 21 CFR 312.32(c)(5). All
parties involved with the trial conduct at the site are to remain blinded to treatment assignment for
subjects that have such events. Consistent with the well established general safety profile from both
the NB phase 3 program and extensive clinical experience of both individual NB components,
routine safety data collection is limited to adverse events leading to discontinuation of study
medication and SAEs. Information on any in utero exposures and pregnancy outcomes are also
collected. Safety data are reviewed on an ongoing basis by an independent DMC.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS
Primary Endpoint:
   * Time from treatment period randomization to the first confirmed occurrence of MACE,
        defined as cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke.
Analysis Populations and Data Considerations:
   * Enrolled: Subjects who take at least one dose of study medication during the lead-in period.
        Data from this population are not used in any formal statistical analyses.
   * Intent-to-treat (ITT): Subjects who undergo randomization into the treatment period and
        are dispensed study medication. All post-randomization data in the treatment period are
        included in statistical analyses for this population. The ITT population is the primary
        analysis population for the primary endpoint and all secondary endpoints.
   * Protocol: ITT subjects who take at least one dose of study medication in the treatment
        period in accordance with the study protocol. Data values observed up to and including 30
        days after a subject's last confirmed treatment period dose date are included in all analyses
        for the Per Protocol population (referred to as on-treatment data), while data values outside
        of this window are excluded. The Per Protocol population is used for sensitivity analyses.
Hypotheses for the Primary Endpoint and Testing Procedure:
With respect to the primary endpoint, the following 3 null hypotheses are tested:
   * HO1: The hazard ratio for NB32 relative to placebo is >2.0
   * H02: The hazard ratio for NB32 relative to placebo is >1.4
                                                        -27-

   *    H03: The hazard ratio for NB32 relative to placebo is >1.0 (test for superiority)
In order to control the Type 1 error rate at the one-sided a=0.025 level, a sequential testing
procedure is used. The testing procedure is described below and is based on MACE confirmed by
adjudication.
   * Accrue at least 87 events.
   * Conduct analysis to rule out a non-inferiority (NI) margin of 2.0 using all of alpha (testing
        H01).
   * The trial must stop if the NI margin of 2.0 is not met. Note that when the true underlying
        hazard ratio is equal to 1, the least favorable hazard ratio point estimate that still results in
        non-inferiority for this test is 1.314.
   * If the NI margin of 2.0 is met, all of alpha is recovered; the trial proceeds to at least 371
        events to rule out the NI margin of 1.4 at the end of the study (testing H02).
   * The final analysis to rule out the NI margin of 1.4 is conducted using all of alpha without
        adjustment since it is the first analysis against the NI margin of 1.4. The first analysis with
        87 events is not used to rule out the NI margin of 1.4 and hence no multiplicity control is
        needed between this analysis and the analyses against the NI margin of 2.0. Note that when
        the true underlying hazard ratio is equal to 1, the least favorable hazard ratio point estimate
        that will still result in non-inferiority for this test is 1.142.
   * If H02 is successfully rejected, the analysis proceeds to test H03 using all of alpha. This is
        the gated test for superiority.
Choice of NI Margin:
In a study population with an annual background MACE rate of 1.0-1.5%:
   * The pre-approval NI margin of 2.0 corresponds to ruling out an excess of 10-15 additional
        events per 1,000 subject-years with an absolute risk difference of 1.0-1. 5 %.
   * The post-approval NI margin of 1.4 corresponds to ruling out an excess of 4-6 additional
        events per 1,000 subject-years with an absolute risk difference of 0.4-0.6%.
Secondary Endpoints:
   * Time from treatment period randomization to the first confirmed occurrence of
        cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or nonfatal unstable
        angina requiring hospitalization
   * Time from treatment period randomization to the confirmed occurrence of cardiovascular
        death (including fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke)
   * Time from treatment period randomization to the first confirmed occurrence of myocardial
        infarction (nonfatal or fatal)
   * Time from treatment period randomization to the first confirmed occurrence of stroke
        (nonfatal or fatal)
Other Endpoints:
   * Time from treatment period randomization to the confirmed occurrence of death from any
        cause
   * Time from treatment period randomization to the first confirmed occurrence of unstable
        angina requiring hospitalization (nonfatal or fatal)
   * Time from treatment period randomization to the first occurrence of coronary
        revascularization procedure
   * Percent change in body weight from baseline to Week 52
   * Proportion of subjects achieving >10% body weight reduction from baseline at Week 52
   * Change in blood pressure from baseline to Week 52
Sample Size:
The following assumptions were used to determine the number of confirmed MACE required for
the final analysis against a NI margin of 1.4 for the primary hypothesis in the primary analysis
population (ITT).
                                                       -28-

   *    Underlying hazard ratio of active to control: 1
   *    NI margin: 1.4
   *    One-sided a = 0.025
   *    At least 90% power at the final analysis to establish that the upper bound of a one-sided
        97.5% confidence interval for the hazard ratio will fall below the pre-specified NI margin.
Under these assumptions, the trial requires 371 events. Similarly, 87 events provides 90% power
for the NI margin of 2.0.
To estimate sample size for the ITT population, the following assumptions are used in addition to
those listed above. These assumptions are necessary to allow a sample size to be calculated.
However, since this is an event-driven study, the power for the study is based on the number of
MACE rather than the number of subjects. The assumptions used below represent a single cohort
of subjects randomized in one stage for the final analysis and do not incorporate potential
variations such as enrollment of subjects in more than one stage. Accordingly, the actual sample
size may vary from the sample size calculation provided in this protocol depending on the actual
accrual of events.
   * Recruitment period: 1.5 years
   * 1:1 randomization
   * Maximum subject follow-up: 4 years
   * Lost to follow up (LTFU) rate: 0.0 12 annual LTFU
   * Primary MACE endpoint annualized event rate: 1.5% in the control group
Under these assumptions, the trial requires N=3,955 subjects per treatment group. However, the
number of subjects planned is N=4,593 per treatment group to allow for accrual of a sufficient
number of events in case of minor departures from event rate, recruitment and retention rates, and
underlying hazard ratio assumptions.
This event-driven study is stopped when at least 371 MACE have been confirmed. Accrual of 371
confirmed MACE provides 90% power for the primary analysis with a NI margin of 1.4 in the ITT
population (H02). The least favorable hazard ratio that can still result in a non-inferiority result for
H02 is 1.142 when the true underlying hazard ratio is equal to 1. With this number of events and
the expected discontinuation rate from study medication, there are a sufficient number of
confirmed on-treatment MACE to provide high probability that the hazard ratio estimate in the Per
Protocol population is less than 1.142 assuming the true underlying hazard ratio is equal to 1.
Similarly, in the analysis using a NI margin of 2.0, accrual of at least 87 confirmed MACE
provides 90% power in the ITT population with the least favorable hazard ratio that can still result
in a non-inferiority result for H01 being 1.314 when the true underlying hazard ratio is equal to 1.
There are a sufficient number of confirmed on-treatment MACE to provide high probability that
the hazard ratio estimate in the Per Protocol population is less than 1.314 assuming the true
underlying hazard ratio is equal to 1.
                                                  -29-

Appendix 1
          ilL
                       C'V
                                                       'N
                       NN  '4"
                                                     gIN
              v,' "n.z
                                    z o          1
                                        --N- - - - -
                               -30-

        [0076]         Example 2 summarizes the protocol for a clinical study demonstrating the
beneficial effect of Naltrexone SR/Bupropion SR on body weight and cardiovascular risk factors in
overweight and obese subjects in conjunction with a comprehensive lifestyle intervention (CLI)
program compared minimal lifestyle intervention program.
                                                  Example 2
  TITLE
  A Multicenter, Randomized, Open-Label, Controlled, Method-of-Use Study Assessing the Effect of
  Naltrexone SR/Bupropion SR on Body Weight and Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Overweight and
  Obese Subjects
  PRIMARY OBJECTIVE
      * To assess the effect of the intended clinical method of use of 32 mg naltrexone sustained
           release (SR)/360 mg bupropion SR (NB) in conjunction with a comprehensive lifestyle
           intervention (CLI) program compared to Usual Care (minimal lifestyle intervention program)
           on body weight at Week 26 in subjects who are overweight with dyslipidemia and/or
           controlled hypertension or obese
  SECONDARY OBJECTIVES
      * To assess the effect of NB and CLI compared to Usual Care on:
           o The percentage of subjects achieving a loss of at least 5 %, 10%, and 15% of baseline
                body weight at Week 26
           o Changes in cardiovascular risk factors (waist circumference and lipids) at Week 26
           o Changes in vital signs (systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate) at Week 26
           o Changes in measures of glucose metabolism (fasting glucose, insulin, and homeostasis
                model assessment - insulin resistance [HOMA-IR]) at Week 26
           o Changes in patient reported measures of eating behavior (Binge Eating Scale [BES]),
                sexual function (Arizona Sexual Experiences [ASEX] Scale), and weight-related quality
                of life (Impact of Weight on Quality of Life-Lite Questionnaire [IWQOL-Lite]) at Week
                26.
  ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVES
      *    To assess the effect of NB and CLI compared to Usual Care on change in body weight from
           baseline to post-baseline visits through Week 20
      * To assess the effect of NB and CLI compared to Usual Care on changes in patient reported
           measures of eating behavior, sexual function, and weight-related quality of life at Week 16
      * To assess the longer term effects of NB and CLI (beyond 26 weeks) on body weight,
           cardiovascular risk factors, vital signs, and glucose metabolism
  STUDY DESIGN
      * This is a Phase 3b, multicenter, randomized, open-label, controlled study to assess the effects
           of NB, used in a manner consistent with its intended use after marketing approval, on body
           weight and cardiovascular risk factors compared to the effects of Usual Care in subjects who
           are overweight with dyslipidemia and/or controlled hypertension or obese.
      * A minimum of 198 and up to 242 subjects will be randomly assigned to either NB or Usual
           Care in a 1.75:1 ratio across approximately 15 centers in the United States. Subjects
           randomized to receive NB will also participate in an internet-based CLI program that
           includes a progressive nutrition and exercise program with goal setting and tracking tools.
           Subjects randomized to receive Usual Care will participate in a minimal lifestyle intervention
           program consisting of periodic education/advice from study site personnel. After 26 weeks,
           all subjects will receive NB and CLI through Week 78.
     *   The study consists of three periods:
        1) Screening Period (starting at Visit 1): up to 2 weeks to verify eligibility prior to
                                                      -31-

           randomization.
      2) Controlled Treatment Period ((Visit 2 [Day 1] to Visit 8 [Week 26]): open-label period
      during which subjects who satisfied inclusion/exclusion criteria will receive active study
      medication (NB) and CLI or Usual Care (no study medication and minimal lifestyle
      intervention program). Subjects will be randomly assigned to their treatment group using a
      centralized Interactive Voice or Web Response System (IVRS/IWRS).
         a) Subjects in either treatment group who discontinue from full participation will not
         continue with scheduled study procedures but will be instructed to return to the study site at
         Weeks 26, 52, and 78 to have their weight measured. Subjects randomized to NB who
         discontinue from full participation will also discontinue study medication but will be allowed
         to continue participation in the CLI program for the remainder of the study.
         b) At Visit 6 (Week 16) there will be an evaluation of weight loss and blood pressure changes
         relative to baseline observations for subjects randomized to NB. NB-treated subjects should
         be discontinued from full participation at Week 16 if:
              o they have not lost at least 5% of their baseline body weight or
              o they are experiencing sustained (i.e., at Visit 5 [Week 10] and Visit 6 [Week 16])
                   increases in blood pressure (systolic or diastolic) of>10 mm Hg
    3) Uncontrolled Treatment Period (Visit 8 [Week 26] to Visit 15 [Week 78]): open-label
    treatment period.
         a) Subjects originally randomized to and still taking NB as directed will continue their
              study medication and continue to participate in the CLI program.
         b) Subjects originally randomized to Usual Care will switch to NB, in conjunction with CLI
              at Week 26. Subjects who switch to NB and CLI will follow the same NB dosing
              schedule, CLI curriculum, and evaluation of weight loss and blood pressure changes for
              continuing with therapy as subjects originally randomized to NB and CLI, only 26 weeks
              later in the study.
         c) Subjects who discontinue from full participation will not continue with scheduled study
              procedures but will be instructed to return to the study site at Weeks 52 (if applicable)
              and 78 to have their weight measured. Subjects who discontinue from full participation
              will also discontinue study medication but will be allowed to continue participation in the
              CLI program for the remainder of the study.
                               d.
                .................      ----------      -----           X  ~ &% ~
STUDY POPULATION
A minimum of 198 and up to 242 overweight or obese subjects who are eligible to participate will be
randomized into the study.
Inclusion Criteria
Subjects must meet all of the following inclusion criteria to be eligible for participation in this study.
    1. Female or male subjects, 18 to 60 years, inclusive, of age
    2. Body mass index (BMI) >30 and <45 kg/m2 for subjects with uncomplicated obesity, and BMI
    of >27 and <45 kg/m2 for subjects who are overweight or obese and have dyslipidemia and/or
    controlled hypertension
                                                    -32-

Exclusion Criteria
Subjects meeting any of the following exclusion criteria will not be eligible for participation in this
study.
    1. History of type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus diagnosis
    2. Myocardial infarction within 6 months prior to screening (Visit 1)
    3. Angina pectoris Grade III or IV as per the Canadian Cardiovascular Society grading scheme
    (Table 3)
    4. Clinical history of large vessel cortical strokes, including ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes
    (i.e., transient ischemic attack is not exclusionary)
    5. Blood pressure >145/95 mm Hg at screening (Visit 1) or randomization (Visit 2)
    6. Initiation or alteration of dose of lipid-lowering agents within 4 weeks prior to screening (Visit
    1)
    7. History (within the last 20 years) of seizures, cranial trauma, bulimia, anorexia nervosa, or
    other conditions hat predispose the subject to seizures
    8. Unstable weight (i.e., weight gain or loss of >3%) within 3 months prior to screening (Visit 1)
    9. Use of prescribed or over-the-counter drugs intended for weight loss, or participation in a
    weight loss program within one month prior to screening (Visit 1)
    10. Planned surgical or device intervention for obesity (e.g., gastric banding)
    11. Current or history of severe renal impairment, defined by an estimated glomerular filtration
    rate (GFR) <30 mL/min/1.73 m2
    12. Clinical history of liver failure or current documented aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or
    alanine aminotransferase (ALT) >3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) at screening (Visit 1)
    13. Fasting glucose >126 mg/dL or fasting triglycerides >400 mg/dL at screening (Visit 1)
    14. Current known infection with HIV or hepatitis (documentation of no detectable virus is
    required for subjects with a past infection of hepatitis B or C)
    15. Chronic use or positive screen for opioids at screening (Visit 1)
    16. Drug or alcohol abuse or dependence within 6 months prior to screening (Visit 1) or positive
    urine drug screen
    17. Regular use of tobacco products (an average of at least 1 product per day) including inhaled
    tobacco (such as cigarettes, cigars, pipes, etc.), chewing tobacco or snuff, or nicotine replacement
    products in the 6 months prior to screening (Visit 1)
    18. History of mania or current diagnosis of active psychosis
    19. At risk for suicide attempts based on the judgment of the Investigator
    20. Acute depressive illness, including new onset of depression or acute exacerbation of
    symptoms (stable subjects on chronic treatment for depression are not excluded)
    21. Current use of other bupropion- or naltrexone-containing products or a history of
    hypersensitivity or intolerance to naltrexone or bupropion
    22. Current use of anticonvulsant agents, dopamine agonists, theophylline, or oral corticosteroids
    or use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors within 14 days prior to screening (Visit 1)
    23. Use of any investigational drug, device, or procedure within 30 days prior to screening (Visit
    1)
    24. Pregnant or trying to become pregnant, currently breast-feeding, or of child-bearing potential
    (including perimenopausal women who have had a menstrual period within one year) and not
    willing to practice birth control using a double barrier method (criteria apply to women only)
    25. Any clinically significant electrocardiogram, laboratory, hematology, physical exam, medical
    history, or urinalysis finding that in the investigator's opinion should prohibit participation in the
    study
    26. Inability or unwillingness to perform regular, moderate-intensity exercise, such as brisk
    walking
    27. Inability to access broadband internet or email daily (analog or dial-up access is not
    acceptable)
    28. Inability to complete a test of email use and CLI program access prior to randomization (Visit
    2)
    29. Inability to comply with all required study procedures and schedule, inability to speak and
    read English, or unwillingness or inability to give written informed consent
                                                    -33-

    30. Employee or immediate family member of the Sponsor or member of the study site research
    staff, or cohabitation with another individual randomized in the study
STUDY MEDICATIONS
    * The study medication (NB) will be provided as tablets. Each tablet will contain 8 mg
        naltrexone SR/90 mg bupropion SR. Dose escalation will occur during the first 4 weeks of
        the Controlled Treatment Period for subjects initially randomized to NB and during the first 4
        weeks of the Uncontrolled Treatment Period for subjects initially randomized to the Usual
        Care group, as shown in the table below.
    * Route of Administration: Oral. Doses can be taken with or without food. Tablets must be
        swallowed whole, and should not be cut or crushed.
 NB Dose Schedule                   Wek          2 Week               Wek       4    W   t -mdy end
                               I NB table-       'NB tab         2 N  tlets'         2 NE tablets
 Evening                            -             NB tablet       I NB table-        7NVB tablet%
   a          oNB    i iiiate NB -atmn
                                  r                     a             Cwill
                                                                      Ce      miise NB zeatment at
STUDY PROCEDURES
See Schedule of Study Procedures (Appendix 2).
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS
Analysis Population Definitions:
    * Randomized: Subjects who undergo randomization into the Controlled Treatment Period.
    * Intent-to-Treat (ITT): Subjects randomized to NB and CLI who have received at least one
        dose of study medication and subjects randomized to Usual Care who have received their
        baseline lifestyle intervention program instruction.
    * Modified ITT (mITT): Subjects from the ITT population who have completed the Week 2
        study visit, have a baseline body weight measurement, and have at least one postbaseline
        body weight measurement. Subjects randomized to the NB and CLI group must still be
        taking study medication at the Week 2 study visit.
    * Week 26 Per Protocol (PP): Subjects from the ITT population who have completed the
        study through Week 26 in compliance with the protocol. Subjects randomized to the NB and
        CLI group must have passed the evaluation of weight loss and blood pressure changes for
        continuing with therapy at Week 16 and still be taking study medication at the Week 26
        study visit.
    * Week 52 Per Protocol (PP): Subjects from the Week 26 PP population who have completed
        the study through Week 52 (on study medication at Week 52) and in compliance with the
                                                   -34-

         protocol. Subjects who switched from Usual Care to NB and CLI must have passed the
         evaluation of weight loss and blood pressure changes for continuing with therapy at Week
         42.
    * Week 78 Per Protocol (PP): Subjects from the Week 52 PP population who have completed
         the study through Week 78 (on study medication at Week 78) and in compliance with the
         protocol.
The primary efficacy and safety analysis populations are the Week 26 PP and ITT populations,
respectively.
Primary Study Endpoint:
   0 Percent change in body weight from baseline (Day 1) to Week 26.
Secondary Study Endpoints
    * Percentage of subjects achieving a loss of at least 50%, 10%, and 150% of baseline body weight
         at Week 26
    * Absolute change in body weight from baseline to Week 26
    * Changes in cardiovascular risk factors from baseline to Week 26, including:
         o Waist circumference
         o Fasting triglycerides
         o Fasting LDL cholesterol
         o Fasting HDL cholesterol
    * Changes in vital signs from baseline to Week 26, including:
         o Systolic and diastolic blood pressure
         o Heart rate
    * Changes in measures of glucose metabolism from baseline to Week 26, including:
         o Fasting glucose
         o Fasting insulin
         o HOMA-IR
    * Changes in measurements derived from patient reported outcomes from baseline to Week 26,
         including:
         o Eating behavior (BES)
         o Sexual function (ASEX Scale)
         o Weight-related quality of life (IWQOL-Lite)
Additional Study Endpoints
    * Changes in body weight, cardiovascular risk factors, vital signs, glucose metabolism, and
         patient reported outcomes from baseline to post-baseline visits (prior to and after Week 26, as
         applicable)
    * Changes in body weight, cardiovascular risk factors, vital signs, and glucose metabolism
         from baseline of Uncontrolled Treatment Period (Week 26) to post-Week 26 visits (in
         particular, the Week 52 and Week 78 visits).
Sample Size
The sample size was calculated by estimating the number of subjects required to have >90% power to
detect a significant difference (a=0.05) between the treatment groups at Week 26 for the Week 26 PP
Population using a two-sample t-test with the following assumptions:
    * Effect size between 0.6 and 0.75, which is within the range observed in the NB Phase 3
         clinical program
    * Overall discontinuation rate from full participation between randomization and Week 26:
         60% for NB and CLI (includes discontinuation due to the Week 16 assessment) and 30% for
         Usual Care
    * A 1.75:1 randomization to account for the assumed differential rate of discontinuation from
         full participation for the treatment groups at Week 26
    * Two-sided a=0.05
Under these assumptions, between 198 and 242 randomized subjects are required to detect a
significant difference between groups for the approximately 80 to 120 subjects (39 to 60 per
                                                   -35-

treatment group) expected to comprise the Week 26 PP population. The assumptions for effect size
and discontinuation rates from full participation are based on data from the NB Phase 3 clinical
program and scientific publications pertaining to usual care for obesity (See, Wadden, et al., "A two
year randomized trial of obesity treatment in primary care practice," N Engl J. Med. 2011,
365(21):1969-1979; Tsai, et al., "A primary care intervention for weight loss: results of a randomized
controlled pilot study," Obesity, 2010, 18(8): 1614-1618), herein incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
                                                  -36-

Appendix 2: Schedule of Study Procedures for Example 2
                                                                           screeig Cofrted Treatwnme         Period
                                                    s.a3                                 4          5        Vet              YVst 7     Vsa
                                                                            (c -    2    (-il 6 (WL )       (WVl1 i6?        (W 20)    (WTs 26
   iamed cmsmtX
  Ehgatdy Crem                                     X         x
  MedLm1 THsty                                               X
  EReetroai           gem      Ph-d
               ,-                                   A
        wsg         K   'fTtl      si!s a    <Em-                                                               -\   Xl" XKH
         Weigl             t VHr                                 SiT                  xB          xR X X           X                   X   X1
  RmdnnK                                                                                          x                             x
              WainCe             e                           XY.                                                           X               X
                                               TGs z&dy)
        IWQL-te>
  Prgsaryi          n Test-mmeXX                                                                                XXX
                                                 _~~     A                                                                      X~lCf4
      LapiG&ees.cm                 in             gmm                    X                                                     X
 Trener           (NB13i
        Pad            eeted Ormm,,m;        efr
  "wua                                                                                Y           X             X               X
                                Caps.sma                     X             wUmsd                  Xs~      l    o~aya
    Study'                                                                -N3
          *         ~'
                   tnS                    Gmt who mot        m!awnr'i                mt
  atE       s          a 3at            c .     i
                                               wat                                '1~    ~~   L                           '
       enfats shed          trin hmag     ae     afdstmg         ep     a~mgtf            tks    e    sfet          iaSjt            mdae
                          ai hesya aa        i ss1       dy as o    as iin(xcp      Vi  1     mssgAm          su       r et     e3p7 am

                                                            Uncntnlre4d Thea sat Pede~d                             Exnd of FssJ
                                      Viatn      V t 103 V        il Vsit 32 ViLt          Vi 14        Viz 5
                                        f  2"k 3Th .-k SoL k M 42')'~ ,-Ts 4Ci (Wt S2.-1               ,.-LMk,*,'&v    Yi
         wiVit 3 Ssnss (rHR ]33q                    X,       X      X         H                            HX            X
 WaXt CxXsenc                                                  X                   X                       X             X
 Cacnuitant M;e&cinon
  enew
 Piegsica            a                                                                                     H
                                                                                                           X             XeX
 P-'aEnt   RpeneCUatcornE
      M  ma(BES, ASEXK,X
      PEOO4inK
                    Sx,                                      :                      x         x            x             x
 Ev Aatrt to Conisae
 on-,
 Ren-ewCL1 pzSa                         %          X           x          X         Z         X            X            X
 Study     Meati:n:                        X                                                                            L
                                                    x~         x         ~xx                                             r
   MUO         -- t   n-,                                                 Ae.
Table                   3: Canadian Cardiovascular Society                      grading scheme for angina pectoris
   Grade                              Description
   Grade     I                        Ordinary physical activity does         not caise angia, sch as walking and
                                      climbing stais. Angina with stren ous or rapid or prolonged exertion at
                                      work cr recreation.
   Grade 1                            Shghit himitnation of ordinary activity Wilkng or combing stairs rapidly
                                       walking. uphll,      alking or stair c ng         after meals. or in cold, or in
                                      wind or    under emotional stress. or only durin the few hours after
                                      awakening. Walking more than two blocks on the levet and cliMbing
                                      more tian one flight of ordinary strs at a nonal pace and in normal
                                      conditions
   Grade III                          Marked limitation of ordinary physical activity. Walking one or two
                                      blocks on the level and ciMIIbing one luaht of stairs in normal condition
                                      and at normal pace.
   Grade     IV                       Inabiiry to carry on any physical activity without discomfort angina
                                      syndrome may be present at rest.
   Campeau, 1976. Available on                the Canadian CardiovascUlar Society Website              as www.ces-c5a
                                                                   -38-

Table 4: New York Heart Association: the stages of heart failure
   Class                    patient Svrnptonr
   14a s 1 (MId             No htnitaaon1 Cffd hyIca SdVityt Oldharv pv'sic21 acti'vnv doe" not
                            CRine mwi-A hiue- paliaitatson. cr tvspi i~ (shoiatners o~f bre ath
           Cl~ I(i)          Sliigli 1iminat"On of jhysiiaki act6:nrCiniiil              at 1sta b   Ordinary31
                                 phx ~ ~         11 gat.it~s~ ~ ~~ . oaipitatian"' or. dwprna.
     Cls&III (kfode,-ae}    ] marked 11atitnt      of phlysical' tctntv     Conthrtan11lc aVrcsr, but1 ks th21
                            ond;uiai,            ca-x uses fati"p ,- paipim~ztior or dispt
   Ch.,., IV             (Sei-ere nt w carry out 7nv pihysical a;txir; wi17thout fi scotnfolt. Synmptoats
                            Ot arillic     misufficierry -tt rest. If any nsc        actriV~tys itnderta-ken.
                                       c
                                     &rits    11resed
   Av-ale on the Hev-r F:hm              Socxer of 4 mleika wiv'lte I, MwwwsbOutt1          Pair
                                                         -39-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.     A method of treating a subject at increased risk of an adverse cardiovascular
outcome comprising for overweight or obesity:
                identifying an overweight or obese subject at increased risk of an adverse
       cardiovascular outcome; and
                administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of sustained
       release naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and sustained release
       bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
       2.      The method of claim 1, wherein said overweight or obese subject is identified as
being at increased risk of an adverse cardiovascular outcome if said subject:
                a.) is diagnosed as having cardiovascular disease with at least one risk factor
       selected from the group consisting of:
                        a history of documented myocardial infarction >3 months prior to said
                identification;
                        a history of coronary revascularization including coronary artery bypass
                graft surgery, stent placement, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty,
                or laser atherectomy;
                        a history of carotid or peripheral revascularization, including carotid
                endarterectomy, lower extremity atherosclerotic disease atherectomy, repair of
                abdominal aorta aneurysm, femoral or popliteal bypass;
                        angina with ischemic changes, ECG changes on a graded exercise test, or
               positive cardiac imaging study;
                        ankle brachial index <0.9 assessed by simple palpation within prior 2
               years of said identification; and
                        >50% stenosis of a coronary, carotid, or lower extremity artery within
               prior 2 years of said identification;
                and/or
               b.) is diagnosed as having Type 2 diabetes mellitus with at least 2 risk factors
       selected from the group consisting of:
                        hypertension controlled with or without pharmacotherapy at <145/95 mm
               Hg;
                        dyslipidemia requiring pharmacotherapy;
                        documented low HDL cholesterol, <50 mg/dL in women or <40 mg/dL in
               men, within prior 12 months of said identification; and
                                                 -40-

                       current tobacco smoker.
        3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising a lead-in 2-week period during
which said subject receive treatment according to one of two sequences: 1 week of active study
medication comprising sustained release naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and sustained release bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, once a
day followed by 1 week of placebo once a day; or 1 week of placebo followed by 1 week of
active study medication comprising sustained release naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, and sustained release bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
        4.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the subject does not have one or
more characteristics selected from the group consisting of:
                myocardial infarction within 3 months prior to said identification; angina pectoris
        Grade III or IV as per the Canadian Cardiovascular Society grading scheme; a clinical
        history of cerebrovascular disease including stroke; a history of tachyarrhythmia other
        than sinus tachycardia; blood pressure >145/95 mm Hg, irrespective of treatment with
        antihypertensive agents; unstable weight within 3 months prior to said identification;
        planned bariatric surgery, cardiac surgery, or coronary angioplasty; severe renal
        impairment defined by an estimated GFR <30 mL/min; clinical history of liver failure or
        documented ALT or AST greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal; known
        infection with HIV or hepatitis; chronic use or positive screen for opioids; recent drug or
        alcohol abuse or dependence, with the exception of nicotine dependence, within 6
        months prior to said identification; history of seizures, including febrile seizures, cranial
        trauma, or other conditions that predispose the subject to seizures; history of mania or
        current diagnosis of active psychosis, active bulimia or anorexia nervosa, but not binge
        eating disorder; a risk for suicide attempts; acute depressive illness including new onset
        of depression or acute exacerbation of symptoms, but not stable subjects on chronic
        treatment for depression; any condition with life expectancy anticipated to be less than 4
        years including congestive heart failure NYHA Class 3 or 4; a history of malignancy
        within the previous 5 years, not including non-melanoma skin cancer or surgically cured
        cervical cancer; current use of other bupropion or naltrexone containing products; a
        history of hypersensitivity or intolerance to naltrexone or bupropion; use of monoamine
        oxidase inhibitors within 14 days prior to said identification; use of any investigational
        drug, device, or procedure within 30 days prior to said identification; a pregnant or
        breast-feeding woman, or currently trying to become pregnant, or of child-bearing
                                                -41-

        potential, including peri-menopausal women who have had a menstrual period within
        one year, and not willing to practice birth control; and inability to consistently access
        broadband internet.
        5.      A method of treating a subject for overweight or obesity comprising:
                 identifying an overweight or obese subject; and
                 administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of sustained
        release naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and sustained release
        bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with a web
        based weight management program, a phone-based weight management program, or a
        combination thereof.
        6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the identified subject has a BMI >30 and <45
kg/m 2 with uncomplicated obesity.
        7.      The method of claim 5, wherein the identified subject has a BMI of >27 and <45
kg/m 2 with dyslipidemia and/or controlled hypertension.
        8.      The method of any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein the subject does not have one or
more characteristics selected from the group consisting of:
                history of type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus diagnosis; myocardial infarction
        within 6 months prior to said identification; Angina pectoris Grade III or IV as per the
        Canadian Cardiovascular Society grading scheme; Clinical history of large vessel
        cortical strokes, including ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes; blood pressure >145/95
        mm Hg; initiation or alteration of dose of lipid-lowering agents within 4 weeks prior to
        said identification; history of seizures, cranial trauma, bulimia, anorexia nervosa, or
        other conditions hat predispose the subject to seizures; unstable weight within 3 months
        prior to said identification; use of prescribed or over-the-counter drugs intended for
        weight loss, or participation in a weight loss program within one month prior to said
        identification; planned surgical or device intervention for obesity; current or history of
        severe renal impairment, defined by an estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) <30
                           2
        mL/min/1.73 m ; clinical history of liver failure or current documented aspartate
        aminotransferase (AST) or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) >3 times the upper limit of
        normal; fasting glucose >126 mg/dL or fasting triglycerides >400 mg/dL; known
        infection with HIV or hepatitis;     chronic use or positive screen for opioids; drug or
        alcohol abuse or dependence within 6 months prior to said identification or positive urine
        drug screen; regular use of tobacco products or the use of nicotine replacement products
        in the 6 months prior to said identification; history of mania or current diagnosis of
                                                -42-

         active psychosis; at risk for suicide attempts; acute depressive illness including new
         onset of depression or acute exacerbation of symptoms, but not stable subjects on
         chronic treatment for depression; current use of other bupropion or naltrexone containing
        products; a history of hypersensitivity or intolerance to naltrexone or bupropion; Current
        use of anticonvulsant agents, dopamine agonists, theophylline, or oral corticosteroids or
        use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors within 14 days prior to said identification; use of
         any investigational drug, device, or procedure within 30 days prior to said identification;
         a pregnant or breast-feeding woman, or currently trying to become pregnant, or of child
        bearing potential, including peri-menopausal women who have had a menstrual period
        within one year, and not willing to practice birth control; inability or unwillingness to
        perform regular, moderate-intensity exercise; and inability to complete a test of email
        use and CLI program access.
         9.     The method of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein said subject is treated for at least 26
weeks.
         10.    The method of any one of claims I to 9, further comprising providing said subject
with a web-based weight management program, a phone-based weight management program, or
a combination thereof.
         11.    The method of claim 10, wherein said phone-based weight management program
comprise one or more coaching calls to said subject.
         12.    The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein said phone-based weight management
program optionally comprises one or more web coaching tools.
         13.    The method of any of claims 10 to 12, wherein said web-based or phone-based
weight management program provides said subject with one or more of behavioral, nutritional or
fitness education.
         14.    The method of claim 13, wherein said education are delivered by a trained health
or fitness coach and/or a registered dietitian.
         15.    The method of claim 14, wherein said trained health or fitness coach and/or said
registered dietitian counsel the subject via the phone or via a website for said subject, and
provide one or more of the topics selected from the group consisting of tips and motivational
messages; coaching through question and answer; weekly office hours for real-time responses to
said subject's inquiries via the website; weekly educational materials; video lessons; weight,
exercise, or diet tracking with badge rewards;             goal setting; progress tracking;      and
communications to encourage the subject to engage in the weight management program.
                                                 -43-

         16.    The method of any of claims 10 to 15, wherein said weight management program
comprises introducing a new behavioral, nutritional and/or fitness education theme and 2 or
more goals each week; providing information content and/or a video lesson relevant to said new
theme and goals each week; and providing one or more motivational messages from said trained
health or fitness coach to said subject on one or more days of the week.
         17.    The method of any of claims 10 to 16, wherein said weight management program
comprises said trained health or fitness coach providing a schedule to said subject for real-time
question and answer responses.
         18.    The method of any of claims 10 to 17, wherein said weight management program
comprises one or more activities selected from the group of weekly recording of said subject's
weight, daily recording of said subject's food intake, and daily recording of said subject's
activity.
         19.    The method of any of claims 10 to 18, wherein said weight management program
comprises said subject recording said subject's food intake, wherein said program can track
calories for said recorded food intake using a computer database of calories for specific food
and/or meals.
        20.     The method of any of claims 10 to 19, wherein said web-based weight
management program comprises rewarding said subject with badges when said subject meets
particular program goals.
        21.     The method of any of claims 10 to 20, wherein said weight management program
comprises providing said subject a graphic representation of weight loss progress.
        22.     The method of any of claims 10 to 21, wherein said subject sets a weight loss
goal which is recorded as part of the weight management program.
        23.     The method of any of claims 10 to 22, wherein said weight management program
comprises providing said subject instructions         stretching   and walking   or other light
cardiovascular activity.
        24.     The method of any of claims 10 to 23, wherein said weight management program
comprises providing video clips demonstrating how to perform stretches and exercise activity.
        25.     The method of any of claims 10 to 24, wherein said weight management program
comprises tracking calories burned by said subject based on exercise and activity logs recorded
by said subject.
        26.     The method of any of claims 10 to 25, wherein the weight management program
has a period of at least 26, 52 or 78 weeks.
                                                -44-

        27.    The method of any of claims 1 to 26, wherein 32 mg per day of sustained release
naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and 360 mg per day of sustained
release bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is administered to said subject.
        28.    The method of any of claims 1 to 27, wherein the subject is administered said
sustained release naltrexone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and said sustained
release bupropion, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in a tablet containing 8 mg of
sustained release naltrexone and 90 mg of sustained release bupropion.
        29.    The method of any of claims 1 to 28, wherein said treatment with naltrexone and
bupropion does not increase said subject's risk of an adverse cardiovascular outcome.
        30.    The method of any of claims 1 to 29, wherein said treatment with naltrexone and
bupropion decreases said subject's risk of an adverse cardiovascular outcome.
        31.    The method of any of claims 1 to 30, wherein said adverse cardiovascular
outcome is cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke.
        32.    The method of any of claims 1 to 31, wherein the subject achieves a percentage
of weight loss of at least 5%, 10% or 15%.
        33.    The method of any of claims 1 to 32, wherein the subject does not receive in
person counseling as part of a weight management program.
        34.    The method of any of claims 1 to 32, wherein the subject does not receive more
than 5 in-person counseling sessions as part of a weight management program.
        35.    The method of any of claims 1 to 32, wherein the subject does not receive an
intensive behavioral modification (BMOD) program for weight loss.
                                               -45-

