                                            ABSTRACT
              Product distribution device comprising a pressure controller
5
          The present invention concerns a distribution device (1) intended to distribute
  a product on a surface such as an agricultural land, the distribution device (1)
  comprising: at least one distribution ramp element (2); a product distribution circuit
  (5) comprising: an input port (7) intended to be in fluid communication with a source
0 of the product; a plurality of nozzles (11) fluidly linked in series, the plurality of
  nozzles (11) being disposed along the at least one distribution ramp element (2), the
  plurality of nozzles (11) being linked in series to the input port (7), each distribution
  nozzle among the plurality of distribution nozzles (11) presenting a pressure value, a
  pressure controller (13) configured to equalize the pressure values of each nozzle
5 among the plurality of nozzles (11) in order to control the pressure of the product
  along the at least one distribution ramp element (2); the pressure controller (13)
  comprising only: a first control member (13a); and a second control member (13b),
  each of the first and second pressure control members (13a, 13b) being linked in
  series to the plurality of nozzles (11) and to the input port (7), the plurality of nozzles
0 (11) being disposed between the first control member (13a) and the second control
  member (13b).
          Figure 1

    1/2
II-

                                                        1
                The present invention relates to a distribution device for an agricultural
   machine, arranged to distribute a product on a surface.
                Generally, the distribution devices comprise nozzles spread along a
   distribution ramp, the product being delivered through a distribution circuit to the
 5 nozzles at a predetermined pressure.
                Yet, it appears that when the ramp tilts to follow the configuration of the
   surface, the pressure along the ramp varies. This results in a disparity in the amount
   of product sprayed along the distribution ramp.
                In order to rebalance the output pressure of the nozzles along the ramp, it is
 0 known to use a flow rate control system along the ramp, comprising a flow rate
   controller per nozzle set. Thus, the pressure is controlled per each nozzle set when
   the ramp tilts.
                However, such systems are complex and expensive because of the number of
   the required flow rate controllers and of the complexity of the control circuit of such a
 5 control system. In addition, the flow rate control is carried out in a discrete and not
   linear manner along the ramp.
                The present invention aims to solve all or part of the drawbacks mentioned
   hereinabove.
                For this purpose, the present invention concerns a distribution device intended
 0 to distribute a product on a surface such as an agricultural land, the distribution
   device comprising:
                - at least one distribution ramp element;
                - a product distribution circuit comprising:
                o an input port intended to be in fluid communication with a source of the
 5 product
                o a plurality of nozzles fluidly linked in series, the plurality of nozzles being
   disposed along the at least one distribution ramp element, the plurality of nozzles
   being linked in series to the input port, each distribution nozzle among the plurality of
   distribution nozzles presenting a pressure value;
30              o a pressure controller configured to equalize the pressure values of each
   nozzle among the plurality of nozzles for controlling the pressure of the product along
   the at least one distribution ramp element when this ramp element tilts relative to the
   horizontal;
                - The pressure controller comprising only:
35              o        a first control member; and
                o a second control member,
                each of the first and second pressure control members being linked in series
   to the plurality of nozzles and to the input port; the plurality of nozzles being disposed
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                       2
   between the first control member and the second control member.
                Thanks to the arrangements according to the invention, only two control
   members are necessary to equalize the pressure along a section of the ramp
   depending on its inclination with respect to the horizontal. The implementation of
 5 such a device is hence cost-effective. These arrangements also allow equalizing the
   pressure along the ramp at the inlet of each nozzle of the plurality of nozzles. Thus,
   the flow rate at the outlet of each nozzle of the plurality of nozzles is equalized so as
   to be uniform along the ramp.
                A ramp element means a rigid element in a vertical plane.
 0              According to an aspect of the invention, the at least one ramp element is a
   single-piece.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the at least one ramp element is
   capable of tilting relative to a horizontal plane according to an inclination, in order to
   adapt to the inclination of the surface of a field.
 5              According to an aspect of the invention, the inclination is comprised between 0
   and 300.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the distribution device comprises a
   product storage tank.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the storage tank is fluidly linked to the
 0 input port.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the distribution device comprises a
   control sensor configured to measure a physical quantity characteristic of the ramp
   element or of the distribution circuit.
                Thanks to these arrangements, it is possible to know a physical quantity
 5 characteristic of the ramp element or of the distribution circuit, along the plurality of
   nozzles and thus to equalize the pressure along the distribution circuit and thereby to
   equalize the output flow rate of the plurality of nozzles.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the characteristic physical quantity
   measured by the control sensor is the pressure of the product in the distribution
30 circuit or the inclination of the ramp element.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the control sensor comprises at least
   two pressure sensors disposed on either side of the plurality of nozzles.
                Thanks to these arrangements, it is possible to know the pressure on either
   side of the plurality of nozzles and thus to equalize the pressure along the distribution
35 circuit and therefore to equalize the output flow rate of the plurality of nozzles.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the at least one ramp element
   comprises a first end portion and a second end portion.
                According to an aspect of the invention, one of the two pressure sensors is
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                       3
   disposed at the first end portion of the at least one distribution ramp element and
   another of the at least two pressure sensors is disposed at the second end portion.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the distribution circuit comprises a
   return port and a closing member configured to occupy:
 5              - a closed position, wherein the closing member closes the return port in
   order to maintain the pressure within the distribution circuit when the plurality of
   nozzles distributes the product on the surface;
                - an open position, wherein the closing member releases the return port.
                Thanks to these dispositions, the pressure within the distribution circuit during
 0 the product distribution is maintained and the product distribution is a better spread
   along the at least one ramp element.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the return port is fluidly linked to the
   storage tank.
                When the product distribution on the surface is completed, the distribution
 5 device should be cleaned. Clear water is then introduced into the storage tank, and
   then passes through the distribution circuit so as to clean it before returning back to
   the storage tank via the return port.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the distribution circuit comprises a
   sprinkler, fluidly linked in series to the nozzles in order to limit the flow rate of the
 0 product.
                These arrangements allow informing about the value of the pressure drop and
   controlling the pressure drop.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the pressure drop may be natural, due
   to the natural pressure drops within the distribution circuit, mainly due to the
 5 restrictions, the surface defects or the angles, or may be artificial, ensured for
   example by sprinklers that allow controlling the pressure.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the distribution device comprises an
   electronic control unit configured to control the first and second control members.
                Thus, the control of the pressure within the distribution circuit is carried out
30 automatically.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the electronic control unit is
   configured to process values of the physical quantity measured by the control sensor
   and so as to control the first and second control members.
                Thus, the control of the pressure within the distribution circuit is carried out
35 automatically thanks to the measurements of the control sensor.
                According to an aspect of the invention, each of the first and second control
   members comprise an electrically or electronically-controlled adjustable automatic
   valve, arranged to be controlled by the electronic control unit.
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                       4
                According to an aspect of the invention, each of the first and second control
   members comprise an adjustable valve, and the distribution device comprises an
   electronic control unit, the electronic control unit being configured to control the
   adjustable valves.
 5              Thus, it is possible to adjust each adjustable valve in order to obtain an
   identical fluid pressure at the outlet of each of the adjustable valves.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the electronic control unit is
   configured to control the adjustable valves according to a setpoint.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the adjustable valve of each of the
 0 first and second control members is for example a ball valve.
                According to an aspect of the invention, each of the adjustable valves
   comprises a first supply path of the plurality of nozzles.
                According to an aspect of the invention, each of the adjustable valves
   comprises a second return path.
 5              According to an aspect of the invention, each of the adjustable valves is
   electrically linked to the electronic control unit.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the electronic control unit is
   configured to compare the pressure values of the adjustable valves to each other or
   to a setpoint.
 0              According to an aspect of the invention, the electronic control unit is
   configured to control each of the adjustable valves in order to equalize the pressure
   at the outlet of the adjustable valves.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the distribution device comprises a
   supply control element configured to control the product supply to the distribution
 5 circuit so as to compensate the speed variations of the agricultural machine.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the supply control element is
   electrical, mechanical, or pneumatic.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the supply control element comprises
   a valve configured to return the excess product within the distribution circuit back to
30 the storage tank.
                According to an aspect of the invention, this valve is a three-way valve.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the supply control element is
   configured to adjust the speed of a supply pump of the distribution circuit in order to
   adjust the flow rate at the input port of the distribution circuit.
35              According to an aspect of the invention, each of the first and second control
   members comprise a pneumatically-controlled automatic valve.
                Thanks to these arrangements, the control of the pressure within the
   distribution circuit is carried out automatically and without using electronics, which
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                       5
   allows a lightening of the distribution device and decreases the risks related to
   electrical failures.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the pneumatically-controlled
   automatic valves of the first and second control members are subjected to an
 5 identical pressure setpoint.
                According to an aspect of the invention, each of the automatic valves comprise
   two spaces and a flexible membrane arranged to separate the two spaces.
                According to an aspect of the invention, a first space among the two spaces is
   configured to receive air with a predetermined pressure value.
 0              According to an aspect of the invention, a second space among the two
   spaces is configured to receive the fluid to be distributed.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the first spaces of each of the
   automatic valves are linked by a pneumatic circuit.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the movements of the flexible
 5 membrane allow adjusting the pressure at each of the automatic valves.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the distribution device comprises a
   primary ramp element and a secondary ramp element, the primary ramp element
   comprising a primary pressure controller and the secondary ramp element
   comprising a secondary pressure controller.
 0              Thanks to these arrangements, the ramp elements can carry out the product
   distribution over a large number of surface configuration. The primary and secondary
   ramp elements may indeed have different inclinations.
                According to an aspect of the invention, the distribution device comprises a
   primary ramp element and a secondary ramp element, the primary ramp element
 5 comprising a primary pressure controller and the secondary ramp element
   comprising a secondary pressure controller, the second control member of the
   primary pressure controller and the first control member of the secondary pressure
   controller being combined.
                Thanks to these arrangements, the ramp elements can carry out the product
30 distribution following a V-shaped, an inverted V-shaped or a dissymmetric-shaped
   configuration.
                The present invention further relates to an agricultural machine comprising a
   distribution device in accordance with any one of the above-mentioned
   characteristics.
35              Other characteristics and advantages of the invention will appear upon reading
   the following detailed description for the understanding of which reference will be
   made to the accompanying drawings wherein:
                - Figure 1 represents an agricultural machine according to the invention;
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                             6
                -        Figure 2 represents a distribution circuit disposed along a ramp element;
                -        Figure 3 represents a distribution circuit disposed along two ramp
   elements according to a first embodiment,
                - Figure 4 represents a distribution circuit disposed along two ramp
 5 elements according to a second embodiment.
                Figure 1 shows an agricultural machine 10 comprising a distribution device 1
   according to the invention.
                Figure 2 shows a distribution device 1 intended to distribute a product on a
   surface such as an agricultural land according to the invention. The distribution
 0 device is configured to be installed on an agricultural machine 10. The distribution
   device 1 comprises a distribution ramp element 2. The ramp element 2 is rigid in a
   vertical plane. For example, the ramp element 2 can be a single-piece. The ramp
   element 2 is capable of tilting relative to a horizontal plane of an inclination i, in order
   to adapt to the inclination of the surface. The inclination i is for example comprised
 5 between 0 and 300.
                The distribution device 1 further comprises a product distribution circuit 5.
                The distribution circuit 5 comprises an input port 7 intended to be in fluid
   communication with a source of the product. Indeed, the distribution device 1
   comprises a product storage tank (not represented). The storage tank is fluidly linked
 0 to the input port 7.
                The distribution circuit 5 comprises a plurality of nozzles 11 fluidly linked in
   series. The plurality of nozzles 11 is disposed along the ramp element 2. The plurality
   of nozzles 11 is linked to the input port 7 in series. Each distribution nozzle among
   the plurality of nozzles 11 has a pressure value.
 5              The distribution circuit 5 further comprises a pressure regulator 13 configured
   to equalize the pressure values of each nozzle among the plurality of nozzles 11 in
   order to control the pressure of the product along the ramp element 2 when this ramp
   element tilts relative to the horizontal.
                The pressure controller 13 comprises only a first control member 13a and a
30 second control member 13b. each of the first and second control members 13a, 13b,
   is linked in series to the plurality of nozzles 11 and to the input port 7. The plurality of
   nozzles 11 is disposed between the first control member 13a and the second control
   member 13b.
                The distribution circuit 5 comprises a control sensor 14 comprising two
35 pressure sensors 15a, 15b disposed at the end portions of the ramp element 2, that
   is to say on either side of the plurality of nozzles 11 disposed along the ramp element
   2. Thus, it is possible to know the pressure at the ends of the ramp and therefore to
   equalize the pressure along the distribution circuit 5 and therefore to equalize the
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                    7
   output flow rate of the plurality of nozzles 11, when the ramp element 2 tilts.
                According to another embodiment, the control sensor comprises an
   inclinometer, arranged to measure the inclination of the ramp element.
                Each of the first and second control members 13a, 13b comprises an
 5 adjustable valve 23a, 23b. The adjustable valve 23a, 23b of each of the first and
   second control members 13a, 13b is for example a ball valve. The distribution device
   comprises an electronic control unit, the electronic control unit being configured to
   control the adjustable valves 23a, 23b. The electronic control unit is then
   electronically linked to the pressure sensors 15a, 15b and to the adjustable valves
 0 23a, 23b. The electronic control unit is configured to control the adjustable valves
   23a, 23b in order to equalize the pressure values at the outlet of the plurality of
   nozzles 11. Indeed, the pressure sensors 15a, 15b, communicate the pressure
   values recorded periodically or continuously to the electronic control unit. The
   electronic control unit compares the pressure values. If the pressure values of each
 5 of the pressure sensors 15a, 15b are identical, the electronic control unit does not
   send any command to the adjustable valves 23a, 23b. If the pressure values of each
   of the pressure sensors 15a, 15b are different, the electronic control unit sends a
   command to the lowest adjustable valve with respect to the vertical in order to modify
   its opening, allowing to equalize the pressures at the outlet of the adjustable valves.
 0 It is thus possible to adjust the opening of each adjustable valve 23a, 23b in order to
   obtain an identical fluid pressure at the outlet of each of the adjustable valves 23a,
   23b and therefore an identical flow rate at the outlet of the plurality of nozzles 11.
                The pressure controller may further comprise a user interface. The user
   interface is electronically linked to the electronic control unit. The user interface
 5 allows the user to follow the evolution of the pressure values at the pressure sensors
   15a, 15b.
                According to another embodiment, the electronic control unit may also control
   the adjustable valves according to a pressure setpoint. This embodiment differs from
   the previous embodiment in that the user enters a setpoint in the user interface.
30 When the agricultural machine distributes the product on the surface, the electronic
   control unit controls the adjustable valves 23a, 23b so that the pressure values at the
   pressure sensors 15a, 15b are identical to the setpoint.
                Each of the adjustable valves 23a, 23b comprise a first supply path of the
   nozzles. Each of the adjustable valves 23a, 23b may comprise a second return path.
35              The distribution device 1 may further comprise a supply control element
   configured to control the product supply to the distribution circuit 5 so as to
   compensate the speed variations of the agricultural machine 10. The supply control
   element may be electrical, mechanical or pneumatic. The supply control element may
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                        8
   for example comprise a pump. The supply control element may also comprise a
   three-way valve configured to return the excess product within the distribution circuit
   5 back to the storage tank. The supply control element is configured to adjust the
   speed of a feed pump of the distribution circuit 5 in order to adjust the flow rate at the
 5 input port 7 of the distribution circuit 5.
                According to another embodiment, each of the first and second control
   members 13a, 13b comprise a pneumatically-controlled automatic valve 25a, 25b.
   This embodiment differs from the previous embodiments in that each of the
   automatic valves 25a, 25b comprise two spaces and a flexible membrane arranged
 0 to separate the two spaces. A first space among the two spaces is configured to
   receive air with a predetermined pressure value. A second space among the two
   spaces is configured to receive the fluid to be distributed. Thus, thanks to the flexible
   membrane, the pressure in the first space influences the pressure in the second
   space, thus allowing to control the product pressure along the distribution circuit 5.
 5              The first spaces of each of the automatic valves are linked by a pneumatic
   circuit. The pneumatic circuit has a pressure value subjected to a setpoint. The
   setpoint can be defined either manually by the user via the user interface or by a
   control box. Indeed, the setpoint can be automatically calculated by the control box
   depending on the pressure values read by the pressure sensors 15a, 15b, on
 0 instantaneous flow rate values measured by other sensors, on the speed of the
   agricultural machine and/or any other information serving to control the flow rate. The
   flexible membrane then allows adjusting the pressure at each of the automatic
   valves. Indeed, the movements of one of the flexible membranes is perceived by the
   other flexible membrane via the pneumatic circuit. The pneumatic circuit having the
 5 same pressure in every point, the equalization of the pressures in the pneumatic
   circuit is carried out automatically. By compensation, the pressure in the distribution
   circuit 5 is also automatically equalized. Thus, an electronic control unit and the
   electronic connections are not necessary. As a result, the distribution device is less
   expensive and less prone to electronic malfunctions.
30              The control box can also control the supply control element.
                The distribution circuit 5 comprises a return port 17 and a closing member 19.
   The closing member can occupy a closed position and an open position. In the
   closed position, the closing member 19 closes the return port 17 in order to maintain
   the pressure in the distribution circuit 5 when the plurality of nozzles 11 distributes
35 the product on the surface. In the open position, the closing member 19 releases the
   return port 17 so as to allow for example the cleaning of the distribution circuit 5.
   Hence, the pressure in the distribution circuit 5 during the product distribution is
   maintained and the product distribution is better spread along the ramp element 2.
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                        9
                The return port 17 is fluidly linked to the storage tank. When the product
   distribution on the surface is completed, the distribution device 1 should be cleaned.
   Clear water is then introduced into the storage tank, and then passes through the
   distribution circuit 5 before returning back to the storage tank via the return port 17.
 5              The distribution circuit 5 comprises a sprinkler 21 fluidly linked in series to the
   plurality of nozzles 11 in order to limit the flow rate of the product. For example, a
   sprinkler can be disposed between each nozzle or group of nozzles. Thus, it is
   possible to know the value of the pressure drop or to increase the pressure drop
   artificially. The artificial sprinkler 21 can be placed in the distribution circuit 5 in
 0 addition to the natural pressure drops, in case a high compensation is to be obtained.
                Another embodiment is shown in Figure 3. This embodiment differs from the
   previous embodiments in that the distribution device 1 comprises a primary ramp
   element 31 and a secondary ramp element 33. The primary ramp element 31
   comprises a primary pressure controller 35 and the secondary ramp element 33
 5 comprises a secondary pressure controller 37. Thus, the primary and secondary
   ramp elements 31, 33 can carry out the product distribution over a large number of
   surface configuration. The primary and secondary ramp elements 31, 33, can indeed
   present different inclinations.
                Another embodiment is shown in Figure 4. The distribution device also
 0 comprises a primary ramp element 31 and a secondary ramp element 33. The
   primary ramp element 31 comprises a primary pressure controller 35 comprising a
   first control member 35a and a second control member 35b. The secondary ramp
   element 33 comprising a secondary pressure controller 37 comprising a first control
   member 37a and a second control member 37b. This embodiment differs from the
 5 previous embodiments in that the second control member 35b of the primary
   pressure controller 35 and the first control member 37a of the secondary pressure
   controller 37 being combined. Thus, the primary and secondary ramp elements 35,
   37 can carry out the product distribution following a V-shaped or an inverted V
   shaped configuration. These arrangements allow adapting to symmetrical surface
30 configurations and saving a control member.
                Of course, the present invention is not limited to the above-mentioned
   embodiments described by way of illustrative and non-restrictive examples.
                In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
35 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
   to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                         10
               It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
  reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
  common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
5
  9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                              11
                THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
                1.            A distribution device (1) intended to distribute a product on a surface
 5 such as an agricultural land, the distribution device (1) comprising:
                - at least one distribution ramp element (2);
                -        a product distribution circuit (5) comprising:
                o        an input port (7) intended to be in fluid communication with a source of the
   product;
 0              o a plurality of nozzles (11) fluidly linked in series, the plurality of nozzles
   (11) being disposed along the at least one distribution ramp element (2), the plurality
   of nozzles (11) being linked to the input port (7) in series, each distribution nozzle
   among the plurality of distribution nozzles (11) having a pressure value;
                o a pressure controller (13, 35, 37) configured to equalize the pressure
 5 values of each nozzle among the plurality of nozzles (11) in order to control the
   pressure of the product along the at least one distribution ramp element (2) when this
   ramp element (2) tilts relative to the horizontal.
                The pressure controller (13, 35, 37) comprising only:
                - a first control member (13a, 35a, 37a); and
 0              - a second control member (13b, 35b, 37b),
                each of the first and second pressure control members (13a, 13b, 35a, 35b,
   37a, 37b) being linked in series to the plurality of nozzles (11) and to the input port
   (7), the plurality of nozzles (11) being disposed between the first control member
   (13a, 35a, 37a) and the second control member (13b, 35b, 37b).
 5
                2.            The distribution device according to claim 1, comprising a control
   sensor (15a, 15b) on either side of the plurality of nozzles (11), configured to
   measure a physical quantity characteristic of the ramp element or of the distribution
   circuit.
30
                3.            The distribution device according to claim 2, wherein the characteristic
   physical quantity measured by the control sensor (15a, 15b) is the pressure of the
   product in the distribution circuit and/or the inclination of the ramp element.
35
                4.            The distribution device according to any of claims 1 to 3, comprising a
   return port (17) and a closing member (19) configured to occupy:
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                              12
                -             a closed position, wherein the closing member (19) closes the return
   port (17), in order to maintain the pressure in the distribution circuit (5) when the
   plurality of nozzles (11) distributes the product on the surface;
                -             an open position wherein the closing member (19) releases the return
 5 port (17).
                5.            The distribution device according to any of the preceding claims,
   comprising a supply control element configured to control the product supply to the
   distribution circuit so as to compensate the speed variations of the agricultural
 0 machine.
                6.            The distribution device according to any of the preceding claims,
   comprising at least one sprinkler (21), fluidly linked in series to the plurality of nozzles
   (11) in order to control the flow rate of the product.
 5
                7.            The distribution device according to any of the preceding claims,
   comprising an electronic control unit configured to control the first and second control
   members (13a, 13b, 35a, 35b, 37a, 37b).
 0              8.            The distribution device according to claim 7, wherein the electronic
   control unit is configured to process values of the physical quantity measured by the
   control sensor (15a, 15b) and in order to control the first and second control
   members (13a, 13b, 35a, 35b, 37a, 37b).
 5
                9.            The distribution device according to any of the preceding claims,
   wherein each of the first and second control members (13a, 13b, 35a, 35b, 37a, 37b)
   comprise an electrically or electronically-controlled adjustable automatic valve (23a,
   23b), arranged to be controlled by the electronic control unit.
30
                10.           The distribution device according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein each
   of the first and second control members (13a, 13b, 35a, 35b, 37a, 37b) comprise a
   pneumatically-controlled automatic valve (25a, 25b).
35
                11.           The distribution device according to claim 10, wherein the
   pneumatically-controlled automatic valves (25a, 25b) of the first and second control
   9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

                                                             13
  members (13a, 13b, 35a, 35b, 37a, 37b) are subjected to an identical pressure
  setpoint.
               12.           The distribution device according to any of the preceding claims,
5 comprising a primary ramp element (31) and a secondary ramp element (33), the
  primary ramp element (31) comprising a primary pressure controller (35) and the
  secondary ramp element (33) comprising a secondary pressure controller (37).
0              13.           The distribution device according to the preceding claim, comprising a
  primary ramp element (31) and a secondary ramp element (33), the primary ramp
  element (31) comprising a primary pressure controller (35) and the secondary ramp
  element (33) comprising a secondary pressure controller (37), the second control
  member (35b) of the primary pressure controller (35) and the first control member
5 (37a) of the secondary pressure controller (37) being combined.
               14.           The agricultural machine comprising a distribution device in accordance
  with any one of the previous claims.
  9802651 1 (GHMatters) P107835.AU

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
