                                           ABSTRACT
A method, comprising: receiving (420), by a server computer, a biometric digital artifact in
conjunction with a payment transaction, wherein the biometric digital artifact is generated by a
consumer device and comprises information regarding a type of biometric data, and a
determination of a data match between a first biometric data of a user and a second biometric data
of the user; determining (422), by the server computer, that the biometric digital artifact is valid
by comparing the biometric digital artifact to a previously stored biometric digital artifact; and
transmitting, by the server computer, an approval message after determining that the biometric
digital artifact is valid.
14253874/P122666D1

                                                  1
             AUTHENTICATION USING BIOMETRIC TECHNOLOGY
                          THROUGH A CONSUMER DEVICE
             CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]        This Australian application is a divisional application of Australian patent
application No. 2013230029, which entered the National Phase in Australia from
International (PCT) Application No. PCT/US2013/029177, which was filed on 5 March 2013
and which claimed Priority from US patent application No. 61/606892 which was filed on 5
March 2012, all of which applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety
for all purposes.
                                 BACKGROUND
 [0002]       Fraud in the consumer transaction service industry is a problem. For
 instance, lately, many consumer transactions may be completed using a consumer
 device (e.g., mobile phone) without the use of a physical payment card. A user may
 initiate a payment transaction from a consumer device at a point-of-sale terminal or in
 a remote payment environment. Some consumer device initiated transactions without
 a physical payment card may require biometric authentication to verify the identity of
the payment user. However, in some cases a forger can duplicate the user biometric
 and complete a fraudulent transaction using the payment card details of the payment
user.
 [0003]       Additionally, inconvenience and inefficiency are other problems associated
with biometric authentication. Biometric authentication may require long processing
times due to having to accurately match the user biometric data against a database of
the user's registered biometric data. This delay in processing may cause
inconvenience for the user who wishes to complete the transaction from the
consumer device.
[00041        Embodiments of the invention address these and other problems.
                                         SUMMARY
[0005]        The disclosure, broadly described, allows for user authentication using
biometric technology through a consumer device. More specifically, the disclosure
14253971/P122666D1

                                                 2
pertains to transactions initiated from a consumer device, such as a mobile phone or
personal computer, for both face-to-face and remote payment environments.
[0006]        The disclosure relates to systems and methods for authenticating a user at a
consumer device and authenticating a user at a server computer. The disclosure
provides strong user authentication on a trusted consumer device without requiring the
user to go through a formal registration process with the issuer or payment processing
network. Certain arrangements allow the use of any biometric technology (e.g.,
fingerprint scan, iris scan, voice recognition, etc.) supported by their consumer device
(e.g., smart phone, tablet computer) to authenticate the user. Additionally, the
consumer device provides unforgeable evidence of the biometric match in the form of
a unique digital signature to provide proof to a payment processing network that the
match occurred. The payment processing network maintains a history of these
authenticated transactions and unique digital signatures and as more and more non
fraudulent authenticated transactions occur over time, a higher level of trust (i.e., lower
risk) is associated with the consumer device, biometric registration process, and the
user.
[00071        In certain arrangements, the consumer device supports biometric capability via
a dedicated sensor (e.g., fingerprint reader) or existing sensor (e.g., camera or microphone
for iris recognition, voice recognition, etc.). The user registers their biometric data locally
on the consumer device using software that provides this service. When a payment
transaction requiring user authentication is to be performed, the user performs the
necessary step(s) to have their biometric read (e.g., swipe their finger on the fingerprint
sensor, speak into a microphone, etc.). In some arrangements, the biometric software
performs the match on the device and uses an algorithm to generate a unique biometric
digital artifact based on the biometric authentication. Any suitable artifact generation
algorithm can be used. The artifact is verifiable by a server computer in a payment
processing network and is unique with each transaction. The consumer device transmits
the unique biometric digital artifact to the payment processing network along with the
consumer device's disposition (e.g., biometric match or no match). The payment
processing network verifies the artifact and records the fact that this verification occurred.
In some arrangements, each time the user performs a transaction, this verification step
occurs. Over time, this particular user authentication process is trusted more and more as
14253971/P122666Dl

                                                  3
long as the account remains non-fraudulent. The trust increases on each subsequent
transaction as long as the consumer device consistently provides unique data that continues
to be verified. This process provides strong proof that the biometric matching is occurring
and the user is indeed performing the transactions.
 [0008]       One arrangement discloses a computer implemented method for
authenticating a user at a consumer device, comprising: receiving a first biometric
data of a user; comparing the first biometric data with a second biometric data of the
user; determining, from the comparison, whether the first biometric data and the
second biometric data match according to a predetermined threshold; and creating a
biometric digital artifact based on the first biometric data, wherein the biometric digital
artifact includes information regarding a type of biometric data received and the
determination.
 [0009]       One arrangement discloses a computer- implemented method for
authenticating a user at a server computer, comprising: receiving payment information
and a biometric digital artifact, wherein the biometric digital artifact is generated by a
consumer device and comprises information regarding a type of biometric data, and a
determination of a data match between a first biometric data of a user and a second
biometric data of a user; holding the biometric digital artifact in a queue for a
predetermined period of time; determining that the biometric digital artifact is valid;
and updating a user profile with the biometric digital artifact based on the
determination.
[0009A]       According to one aspect of the disclosed invention, there is provided a method,
comprising: receiving, by a server computer, a biometric digital artifact in conjunction with a
payment transaction, wherein the biometric digital artifact is generated by a consumer device
and comprises information regarding a type of biometric data, and a determination of a data
match between a first biometric data of a user and a second biometric data of the user;
determining, by the server computer, that the biometric digital artifact is valid by comparing
the biometric digital artifact to a previously stored biometric digital artifact; and transmitting,
by the server computer, an approval message after determining that the biometric digital
artifact is valid
14253971/P122666Dl

                                                  4
[0009B1     According to one aspect of the disclosed invention, there is provided a server
computer comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium,
comprising code executable by the processor for implementing a method comprising:
receiving a biometric digital artifact in conjunction with a payment transaction, wherein the
biometric digital artifact is generated by a consumer device and comprises information
regarding a type of biometric data, and a determination of a data match between a first
biometric data of a user and a second biometric data of the user; determining that the
biometric digital artifact is valid by comparing the biometric digital artifact to a previously
stored biometric digital artifact; and transmitting an approval message after determining that
the biometric digital artifact is valid.
[0010]      Further details regarding embodiments of the invention can be found in
the Detailed Description and the Figures.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]      FIG. 1 is a simplified block diagram of a payment system, according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0012]      FIG. 2 is a simplified block diagram of a mobile device, according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0013]      FIG. 3 is a simplified block diagram of a server computer, according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0014]      FIG. 4 is a simplified flow diagram illustrating a method for
authenticating a user for a transaction, according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0015]      FIG. 5A illustrates registering a user biometric via a thumbprint, according to
an embodiment of the present invention.
[0016]      FIG. 5B illustrates authenticating a user via a thumbprint, according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
14253971/P122666 D1

                                               4a
[0017]      FIG. 6A illustrates registering a user biometric via a voice sample, according
to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0018]      FIG. 6B illustrates authenticating a user via a voice sample, according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0019]      FIG. 7 illustrates a user fraud profile stored within a database, according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0020]      FIG. 8 is a simplified flow diagram illustrating a method for
authenticating a user for a transaction at a consumer device, according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
14253971/P122666D1

[00211         FIG. 9 is a simplified flow diagram illustrating a method for
authenticating a user for a transaction at a server computer, according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0022]         FIG. 10 is a diagram of a computer apparatus, according to an
example embodiment.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0023]         Prior to discussing the specific embodiments of the invention, a
further description of some terms can be provided for a better understanding
of embodiments of the invention.
[0024]        A "payment device" may include any suitable device capable of
making a payment. For example, a payment device can include a card
including a credit card, debit card, charge card, gift card, or any combination
thereof. A payment device can be used in conjunction with a consumer
device, as further defined below.
[0025]        A "payment processing network" (e.g., VisaNet TM) may include
data processing subsystems, networks, and operations used to support and
deliver authorization services, exception file services, and clearing and
settlement services. An exemplary payment processing network may include
VisaNet TM. Payment processing networks such as VisaNetTM are able to
process credit card transactions, debit card transactions, and other types of
commercial transactions. VisaNetTM in particular, includes a VIP system (Visa
Integrated Payments system) which processes authorization requests and a
Base Il system which performs clearing and settlement services.
[0026]        An "authorization request message" can include a request for
authorization to conduct an electronic payment transaction.       It may further
include an issuer account identifier. The issuer account identifier may be a
payment card account identifier associated with a payment card. The
authorization request message may request that an issuer of the payment
card authorize a transaction. An authorization request message according to
an embodiment of the invention may comply with ISO 8583, which is a
                                            5

 standard for systems that exchange electronic transactions made by users
 using payment cards.
 [0027]         An "authorization response message" can be a message that
 includes an authorization code, and may typically be produced by an issuer.
 A "transaction response" may be an authorization response message in some
 embodiments of the invention.
 [0028]         A "server computer" can be a powerful computer or a cluster of
 computers. For example, the server computer can be a large mainframe, a
 minicomputer cluster, or a group of servers functioning as a unit. In one
 example, the server computer may be a database server coupled to a Web
 server.
 [0029]         A "terminal" (e.g. a point-of-service (POS) terminal) can be any
 suitable device configured to process payment transactions such as credit
 card or debit card transactions, or electronic settlement transactions, and may
 have optical, electrical, or magnetic readers for reading data from other
 portable consumer devices such as smart cards, keychain device, cell
 phones, payment cards, security cards, access cards, and the like.
 [0030]         An "acquirer" is a business entity (e.g., a commercial bank) that
typically has a business relationship with the merchant and receives some or
all of the transactions from that merchant.
[0031]         An "issuer" is a business entity which issues a card to a user.
Typically, an issuer is a financial institution.
[0032]         A "cardholder" is an individual who is authorized to use a
payment card issued by the issuer. The terms "cardholder" and "user" may be
used interchangeably in the following description.
[0033]          "Biometric data" includes data that can be used to uniquely
identify an individual based upon one or more intrinsic physical or behavioral
traits. For example, biometric data may include fingerprint data and retinal
scan data. Further examples of biometric data include digital photographic
                                             6

 data (e.g., facial recognition data), deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) data, palm
 print data, hand geometry data, and iris recognition data,
 [0034]         A "predetermined correlation," as described herein, can be a
 relationship between received input data and stored data. In the context of
the present invention, the received input data can be a first set of biometric
 data from a user. The stored data can be a previously stored biometric data
 of the user. The predetermined correlation can be a previously set threshold
that identifies or quantifies to what degree the received input data and the
 previously stored input data should match. If the received input data and the
 previously stored input data match according to the predetermined threshold
or "correlation", then the data is considered a match. Alternatively, the
correlation can determine a "risk factor" associated with the input data. A high
correlation can constitute a low risk factor and a low correlation can constitute
a high risk factor. To illustrate correlation, fingerprints, for example, contain a
certain number of identifying features. If a high number of identifying features
of a fingerprint are matched to a stored fingerprint, then the probability that
both fingerprints are from the same person may be high (e.g., low risk).
Similarly, if few identifying features match between the two fingerprints, then
the probability that they are from the same person is low (e.g., high risk).
Setting the appropriate threshold to ensure an acceptable level of accuracy
would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. This concept can be
applied to other biometric data (e.g., retinal scans, facial recognition data,
etc.).
[0035]          A "biometric digital artifact," as described herein, can be a digital
artifact or cryptographically generated value that provides information
identifying a type of biometric used in an authentication process and whether
a biometric match has occurred on a consumer device. The biometric digital
artifact (BDA) can be a binary number or, in some embodiments, an analog
signal. Each time a consumer device authenticates a user biometric, a new
BDA is created by the consumer device that includes enough information to
                                              7

 identify the biometric type and authentication result, yet is unique in that
 fraudulent copies of the BDA can be identified and invalidated.
 [0036]         A "consumer device," as described herein, can be any
 consumer electronic device that can execute and/or support payment
 transaction including, but not limited to, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a
 smart phone, tablet computer, notebook computer, and the like.
 [0037]         Embodiments of the invention provide strong user authentication
 on a trusted consumer device without requiring the user to go through a
formal registration process with the issuer or payment processing network.
 Certain embodiments allow the use of any biometric technology (e.g.,
fingerprint scan, iris scan, voice recognition, etc.) supported by their consumer
device (e.g., smart phone, tablet computer) to authenticate the user.
Additionally, the consumer device provides unforgeable evidence of the
biometric match in the form of a unique digital signature to provide proof to a
payment processing network that the match occurred. The payment
processing network maintains a history of these authenticated transactions
and unique digital signatures and as more and more non-fraudulent
authenticated transactions occur over time, a higher level of trust (i.e., lower
risk) is associated with the consumer device, biometric registration process,
and the user.
[0038]          In certain embodiments, the consumer device supports a
biometric capability via a dedicated sensor (e.g., fingerprint reader) or existing
sensor (e.g., camera or microphone for iris recognition, voice recognition,
etc.). The user registers their biometric data locally on the consumer device
using software that provides this service. When a payment transaction
requiring user authentication is to be performed, the user performs the
necessary step(s) to have their biometric read (e.g., swipe their finger on the
fingerprint sensor, speak into a microphone, etc.). In some embodiments, the
biometric software performs the match on the device and uses a propriety
algorithm to generate a unique biometric digital artifact based on the biometric
authentication. The biometric digital artifact is verifiable by a payment
                                            8

 processing network and is unique with each transaction. The consumer
 device transmits the unique biometric digital artifact to the payment
 processing network along with the consumer device's disposition (e.g.,
 biometric match or no match). The server computer in the payment
 processing network (or other location) verifies the artifact and records the fact
 that this verification occurred. In some embodiments, each time the user
 performs a transaction, this verification step occurs. Over time, this particular
 user authentication process is trusted more and more as long as the account
 remains non-fraudulent. The trust increases on each subsequent transaction
 as long as the consumer device consistently provides unique data that
 continues to be verified. This process provides strong proof that the biometric
 matching is occurring and the user is indeed performing the transactions.
 [0039]          The above examples highlight only a few of the advantages of
 using a biometric digital artifact to authenticate a user on a consumer device.
 [0040]          Other advantages of embodiments of the invention relate to
technical advantages such as the reduction in data transmission, which
results in increased bandwidth over communication networks. For example,
because much of the biometric verification processing occurs in a distributed
manner (e.g., by using many mobile phones), the need for large
computational requirements for a central server computer is reduced.
Further, in embodiments of the invention, a digital artifact that is relatively
small in size is being transmitted to a central server computer, resulting in fast
data transmission. This is compared to the case where a data intensive
biometric data sample (e.g., an audio file for a voice sample) is being
transmitted through a communication medium.
    1.      Exemplary Systems
[0041]           FIG. 1 is a simplified block diagram of a payment system 100,
according to one embodiment of the present invention. The system 100
includes a consumer device 110, a terminal 120, an acquirer 130, a payment
processing network 140, an issuer 150, and an interconnected network 160.
                                             9

 The acquirer 130 may further include an acquirer computer (not shown). The
 payment processing network 140 may include an authorization and settlement
 server and/or additional servers (not shown) to carry out the various
 transactions described herein.
 [0042]          In an embodiment, the consumer device 110 is in electronic
 communication with the terminal 120. The consumer device 110 can be a
 personal digital assistant (PDA), a smart phone, tablet computer, notebook
 computer, or the like, that can execute and/or support payment transactions
 with a payment system 100. A consumer device 110 can be used in
 conjunction with a payment device, such as a credit card, debit card, charge
 card, gift card, or other payment device and/or any combination thereof. The
 combination of a payment device (e.g., credit card) and the consumer device
 110 (e.g., smart phone) can be referred to as the consumer device 110 for
 illustrative purposes. In other embodiments, the consumer device 110 may
 be used in conjunction with transactions of currency or points (e.g., points
accumulated in a particular software application). In further embodiments, the
consumer device 110 may be a wireless device, a contactless device, a
magnetic device, or other type of payment device that would be known and
appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art with the benefit of this
disclosure. In some embodiments, the consumer device 110 includes
software (e.g., application) to perform the various payment transactions,
processing user biometric data, and generating a unique digital signature as
further described below.
[0043]          In some embodiments, the user biometric data may include
fingerprint data, retinal scan data, digital photograph data (e.g., facial
recognition data), DNA data, palm print data, hand geometry data, iris
recognition data, or other similar biometric identifier that would be appreciated
by one of ordinary skill in the art with the benefit of this disclosure.
[0044]          The terminal 120 is configured to be in electronic communication
with the consumer device 110 and the acquirer 130. In one embodiment, the
terminal 120 is a point-of-service (POS) device. Alternatively, the terminal
                                            10

 120 can be any suitable device configured to process payment transactions
such as credit card or debit card transactions, or electronic settlement
transactions, and may have optical, electrical, or magnetic readers for reading
data from portable consumer electronic devices such as smart cards,
keychain device, cell phones, payment cards, security cards, access cards,
and the like. In some embodiments, the terminal 120 is located at and
controlled by a merchant. For example, the terminal 120 can be a POS
device at a grocery store checkout line.
[0045]          The acquirer 130 (e.g., acquirer bank) includes an acquirer
computer (not shown). The acquirer computer can be configured to transfer
data (e.g., bank identification number (BIN), biometric digital artifact, etc.) and
financial information to the payment processing network 140. In some
embodiments, the acquirer 130 does not need to be present in the system
100 for the consumer device 110 to transfer the financial and user data to the
payment processing network 140. In one non-limiting example, the acquiring
bank 130 can additionally check the credentials of the user against a watch
list in order to prevent fraud and money laundering schemes, as would be
appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.
[0046]          In one embodiment, the payment processing network 140 is
VisaNet TM, where Visa internal processing (VIP) performs the various
payment processing network 140 or multi-lateral switch functions described
herein. The payment processing network 140 can include an authorization
and settlement server (not shown). The authorization and settlement server
("authorization server") performs payment authorization functions. The
authorization server is further configured to send and receive authorization
data to the issuer 150. Furthermore, the payment processing network 140
can receive a unique digital signature (e.g., from the payment device 110,
terminal 120, or acquirer 130) to determine a risk factor associated with a
transaction, as further described below.
[0047]          In some embodiments, the issuer 150 is a business entity which
issues a card to a card holder. Typically, an issuer is a financial institution.
                                          11

The issuer 150 is configured to receive the authorization data from the
payment processing network 140 (e.g., the authorization server). The issuer
150 receives authentication data from the authorization server and determines
if the user is authorized to perform a given financial transaction (e.g., cash
deposit/withdrawal, money transfer, balance inquiry) based on whether the
user was authenticated by an identification system.
[0048]          In some embodiments, the consumer device 110 may be
connected to and communicate with the payment processor network 140 via
an interconnected network 160. One example of an interconnected network
160 is the Internet. The payment processor network 140 may inform the
consumer device 110 when a payment has been successfully processed. In
some embodiments, the payment processor network 140 may be connected
to and communicate with the terminal 120 via the interconnected network 160.
The payment processor network 140 may inform the terminal 120 when a
payment has been successfully processed which in turn the terminal 120 may
complete the transaction with the consumer device 110.
[0049]          FIG. 2 is a simplified block diagram of a consumer device 110,
according to an embodiment of the present invention. Consumer device 110
includes a processor 210, a biometric sensor 220, a display 230, an input
device 240, a speaker 250, a memory 260, and a computer-readable medium
270.
[0050]          Processor 210 may be any general-purpose processor operable
to carry out instructions on the consumer device 110. The processor 210 is
coupled to other units of the consumer device 110 including biometric sensor
220, display 230, input device 240, speaker 250, memory 260, and computer
readable medium 270.
[0051]          Biometric sensor 220 is a sensor within consumer device 110
operable for detecting a user biometric. In one example, the biometric sensor
220 may be a fingerprint scanner on the consumer device 110 operable to
scan a user's fingerprint and store its corresponding biometric data within
memory 260. In another example, the biometric sensor 220 may be a
                                            12

microphone operable to record a user's voice sample and store its
corresponding biometric data within the memory 260. In yet another example,
the biometric sensor 220 may be a retinal scanning device operable to scan a
user's retina and store its corresponding biometric data within the memory
260. The biometric data may be stored within the computer-readable medium
270 via processor 210.
[0052]         Display 230 may be any device that displays information to a
user. Examples may include an LCD screen, CRT monitor, or seven-segment
display.
[0053]         Input device 240 may be any device that accepts input from a
user. Examples may include a keyboard, keypad, or mouse. In some
embodiments, biometric sensor 220 may be considered an input device 240.
[0054]         Speaker 250 may be any device that outputs sound to a user.
Examples may include a built-in speaker or any other device that produces
sound in response to an electrical audio signal. In some embodiments,
speaker 250 may be used to request the user for a biometric input or to
provide feedback on the progress of biometric detection.
[0055]         Memory 260 may be any magnetic, electronic, or optical
memory. Memory 260 includes two memory modules, module 1 262 and
module 2 264. It can be appreciated that memory 260 may include any
number of memory modules. An example of memory 260 may be dynamic
random access memory (DRAM).
[0056]        Computer-readable medium 270 may be any magnetic,
electronic, optical, or other computer-readable storage medium. Computer
readable storage medium 270 includes registration module 272, cryptography
module 278, biometric artifact generation module 276, and biometric match
determination module 274.
[0057]         Registration module 272 is configured to register a user with the
consumer device 110. In some embodiments, a user may register his/her
biometric data with the consumer device 110. The registration may be
                                          13

 performed via biometric sensor 220. The registered user biometric data may
 be stored within memory 260. For example, consumer device 110 may
 request a user to register his/her biometric data by displaying a prompt, on
display 230, to scan his/her index finger on biometric sensor 220 for purposes
of registration. Upon scanning the user's finger on biometric sensor 220, the
registered biometric data corresponding to the scanned fingerprint may be
stored within memory 260 for future biometric authentication of the user.
 [0058]        Biometric match determination module 274 is configured to
determine whether an inputted biometric data from a user matches a
previously registered, by the registration module 272, biometric data from the
user. For example, if a user wishes to initiate a payment transaction, display
230 may request the user to provide his/her biometric data by displaying a
prompt, on display 230, to scan his/her index finger on the biometric sensor
220. The scanned index finger and corresponding biometric data may be
used for purposes of authenticating the user prior to initiating the payment
transaction. The biometric match determination module 274 may then
compare the biometric data corresponding to the scanned index finger to
previously registered biometric data of the user that is stored within memory
260. If a match is determined a biometric artifact may be generated,
discussed below.
[0059]         Biometric artifact generation module 276 is configured to
generate a biometric digital artifact based on a determination of the match by
the biometric match determination module 274. The biometric digital artifact
may include information regarding the type of biometric data received by the
biometric sensor 220 (e.g. voice biometric, fingerprint biometric, DNA
biometric, etc.) and whether a match was determined by the biometric match
determination module 274. Each time user biometric authentication is
performed, the biometric digital artifact generated by the biometric artifact
generation module 276 is unique to the user and the particular authentication
instance. It is highly unlikely that two generated biometric digital artifacts will
be identical.
                                           14

[0060]           Cryptography module 278 is configured to generate a
cryptographic value of the biometric digital artifact. The cryptographically
generated biometric digital artifact may then be sent to by the consumer
device 110 to a server computer for verification against an expected biometric
digital artifact (described below).
[0061]           FIG. 3 is a simplified block diagram of a server computer 300,
according to an embodiment of the present invention. Server computer 300
includes an input/output interface 310, a memory 320, a processor 330, a
temporary biometric artifact queue 340, a user fraud profile database 350, and
a computer-readable medium 360. In some embodiments, the server
computer may reside within the interconnected network 160.
[0062]           The input/output (1/O) interface 310 is configured to receive and
transmit data. For example, the /O interface 310 may receive the biometric
digital artifact from the consumer device 110 (FIG. 1). Upon processing and
verifying the authenticity of the biometric digital artifact, the 1/O interface 310
may indicate to the terminal 120 (FIG. 1) and/or consumer device 110 (FIG. 1)
that a payment transaction may proceed. The 1/O interface 310 may also be
used for direct interaction with the server computer. The 1/O interface 310
may accept input from an input device such as, but not limited to, a keyboard,
keypad, or mouse. Further, the I/O interface may display output on a display
device.
[0063]           Memory 320 may be any magnetic, electronic, or optical
memory. It can be appreciated that memory 320 may include any number of
memory modules. An example of memory 320 may be dynamic random
access memory (DRAM).
[0064]           Processor 330 may be any general-purpose processor operable
to carry out instructions on the server computer 300. The processor 330 is
coupled to other units of the server computer 300 including input/output
interface 310, memory 320, temporary biometric artifact queue 340, user
fraud profile data base 350, and computer-readable medium 360.
                                             15

[0065]         Temporary biometric artifact queue 340 is configured to
temporarily store the biometric digital artifacts generated by the biometric
artifact generation module 276 (FIG. 2). In some embodiments, the
temporary biometric artifact queue 340 is a queue with a database on server
computer 300. The temporary biometric artifact queue 340 temporarily stores
the biometric digital artifact for a predetermined period of time prior to storing
the biometric digital artifact in the user fraud profile database 350. In some
embodiments, predetermined period of time is a time period during which no
fraud is reported to the issuer 150 (FIG. 1). If no fraud is reported to the user
150 (FIG. 1) during the predetermined period of time, there may be
reasonable certainty that the biometric digital artifact was generated based on
user biometric data of the actual payment user and the biometric digital
artifact may be stored in the user fraud profile database 350 for purposes of
building the user fraud profile (discussed below).
[0066]         The user fraud profile database 350 is configured to store a
fraud profile of a payment user. The fraud profile of a payment cardholder
may include attributes such as, but not limited to, initiation date of the
payment transaction, initiation time of the payment transaction, the payment
cardholder's name, the biometric digital artifact associated with the payment
transaction, the outcome of payment cardholder verification/authentication,
and a variable risk score for the user. These attributes of the payment user's
fraud profile are described in detail in FIG. 7.
[0067]         Computer-readable medium 360 may be any magnetic,
electronic, optical, or other computer-readable storage medium. Computer
readable storage medium 360 includes biometric artifact validation module
362, biometric artifact manipulation module 364, risk score module 366, and
payment processing module 368.
[0068]         Biometric artifact validation module 362 is configured to
determine whether the biometric digital artifact generated by the biometric
artifact generation module 276 (FIG. 2) of consumer device 110 (FIG. 2) is
valid. To determine whether the received biometric digital artifact is valid, the
                                             16

 biometric artifact validation module 362 may compare the received biometric
digital artifact against a previously stored valid biometric digital artifact for the
particular payment user in the user fraud profile database 350. The
comparison may be carried out using fuzzy logic. That is, the received
biometric digital artifact need not be, and likely won't be, an exact match to
the previously stored valid biometric digital artifact to be considered valid. It is
expected that each biometric digital artifact for a particular payment user
generated for each payment transaction will be different because of variances
in the received user biometric data. For example, a user may not scan their
fingerprint biometric data in the exact same location on the biometric sensor
220 (FIG. 2) each and every time. In another example, a user's biometric
voice sample may not be spoken in the same tone each and every time. In
some embodiments, if the payment user is initiating a payment transaction for
the first time, there may not be a previously stored valid biometric digital
artifact and as such, the first received biometric digital artifact may be
considered valid and used for purposes of comparison for future received
biometric digital artifacts.
[0069]           Biometric artifact manipulation module 364 is configured to
temporarily store the generated biometric digital artifact in the temporary
biometric artifact queue 340. As described above, the temporary biometric
artifact queue 340 temporarily stores the biometric digital artifact for a
predetermined period of time prior to storing the biometric digital artifact in the
user fraud profile database 350. Upon expiration of the predetermined period
of time, the biometric artifact manipulation module 364 may forward the
biometric digital artifact from the temporary biometric artifact queue 340 to the
user fraud profile database 350 for purposes of building the user fraud profile.
[0070]           Risk score module 366 is configured to calculate and adjust a
risk score associated with the payment user for each requested payment
transaction. The risk score may be based on a number of valid biometric
digital artifacts received without fraudulent activity. Upon each subsequently
received valid biometric digital artifact, the risk score module 366 may adjust
                                            17

the risk score associated with the user that is stored within the user fraud
profile database 350. For example, a relatively new payment user who may
not have many registered valid digital biometric artifacts stored in the user
fraud profile database 350 may have a higher risk score than a payment user
who has a significantly higher number of valid digital biometric artifacts stored
in the user fraud profile database 350. Each payment user's risk score may
be adjusted lower upon each subsequent valid digital biometric artifact
received.
[0071]         Risk scores may also be generated using other criteria, such as
the type of transaction being conducted (e.g., card present or card not
present), the location of the transaction (e.g., close to the billing address or far
from the billing address), the amount of the transaction (e.g., high transaction
amount vs. low transaction amount), etc.
[0072]         FIG. 4 is a simplified flow diagram illustrating a method 400 for
authenticating a user, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
The method 400 can be performed by processing logic that may comprise
hardware (circuitry, dedicated logic, etc.), software (such as is run on a
general purpose computing system or a dedicated machine), firmware
(embedded software), multiple systems or any combination thereof.
[0073]         In certain embodiments, the user locally registers their biometric
on the consumer device 110 using software that provides this service (e.g., a
smart phone application). Biometric data can include fingerprint data, retinal
scan data, digital photographic data (e.g., facial recognition data),
deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) data, palm print data, hand geometry data, iris
recognition data, and voice recognition data.
[0074]         At step 402, the user registers a voice biometric on the
consumer device 110 by, for example, initially repeating a certain pass phrase
(e.g., voice recognition biometric) into the phone to establish a first reference
biometric (e.g., first biometric data). The consumer device 110 can utilize the
first biometric data as a reference to compare subsequent biometric input
data. The user's voice may be captured by the biometric sensor 220 (FIG. 2).
                                           18

 In some embodiments, the consumer device 110 may capture biometric data
 in the form of the user's fingerprint.
 [0075]         At step 404, the consumer device 110 stores the biometric data
 captured from the user. In some embodiments, the biometric data may be
 stored within memory 260 (FIG. 2) on the consumer device 110.
 [0076]        At step 406, the consumer device 110 (e.g., smart phone)
 captures biometric data (e.g., second biometric data) from a user as he/she
 speaks into it. The user's voice may be captured by the biometric sensor 220
 (FIG. 2). In some embodiments, the consumer device 110 may capture
 biometric data from the user's fingerprint. The second biometric data is
 captured by from the user when the user wishes to initiate a payment
transaction.
 [0077]         At steps 408 and 410, the consumer device 110 locally
compares the first and second set of biometric data and determines whether
the biometric information matches according to a predetermined threshold
 (e.g., predetermined criteria, correlation, etc.). The predetermined threshold
may identify or quantify how much the received input data (e.g., second set of
biometric data) and the previously stored input data (e.g., first set of biometric
data) should match. If the received input data and the previously stored input
data match according to the predetermined threshold, then the data is
considered a match. Alternatively, the correlation can determine a "risk
factor" associated with the input data. A high correlation can constitute a low
risk factor and a low correlation can constitute a high risk factor. Setting the
appropriate threshold to ensure an acceptable level of accuracy would be
appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. One example of a
predetermined threshold can be a requirement for a particular number of
matching features between two biometric inputs. In the example depicted in
FIG. 4, the correlation between the first and second sets of biometric data can
include comparing various electrical properties or characteristics of the voice
recordings.
                                            19

  [0078]        At step 412, the consumer device 110 creates a unique
  biometric digital artifact based on the comparison between the first and
 second biometric data. The biometric digital artifact provides unforgeable
 evidence of the match between the first and second biometric data. In certain
 embodiments, the biometric digital artifact indicates the type of biometric used
 (e.g., finger print, voice scan, etc.) and whether there was a match or
 correlation between the two data sets.
 [0079]         At step 414, the consumer device 110 sends the payment card
 data (or alternatively payment account data) and biometric digital artifact to
 the payment processor network 140.        In certain embodiments, steps 412 and
 414 are parallel transactions and can occur substantially simultaneously with
 respect to each other. Alternatively, step 412 may occur before or after step
 414. In further embodiments, the consumer device 110 can send the
 biometric digital artifact, consumer device verification method (CDVM), and
 authorization request to the terminal 120 (FIG. 1) instead of directly sending
the biometric digital artifact to the payment processing network. In other
words, certain embodiments can combine steps 412 and 414 through the path
 of the terminal 120 (FIG. 1), acquirer 130 (FIG. 1), and payment processing
 network 140 (FIG. 1). It should be noted that the biometric digital artifact can
be referred to as a unique digital artifact.
[0080]          At step 416, a connection is created from the consumer device
 110 to the terminal 120 (e.g., via contactless reader) using a CDVM indicating
that the first and second biometric of the user matched according to the
predetermined threshold (i.e., the user is authenticated). In certain
embodiments, step 416 may be performed any time after step 404, e.g. after
the user registers and stores their biometric data on the consumer device.
For example, when the user wishes to initiate a payment transaction to pay for
groceries at a supermarket check-out line, a connection will be made between
the consumer device 110 and the terminal 120 to facilitate the transaction.
[0081]          At step 418, the merchant (terminal 120) sends transaction data
to the payment processor network 140. The transaction data can include an
                                            20

 indication of the CDVM and the authorization request message to request
 authorization to conduct an electronic payment transaction.      The transaction
 data can further include an issuer account identifier. The issuer account
 identifier may be a payment card account identifier associated with a payment
 card. The authorization request message may request that an issuer of the
 payment card authorize a transaction. An authorization request message
according to an embodiment of the invention may comply with ISO 8583,
which is a standard for systems that exchange electronic transactions made
 by users using payment cards. Similar to step 416 described above, step 418
can occur after, or substantially simultaneously as step 404.
 [0082]         At step 420, the server computer 300 receives the biometric
digital artifact from the payment processor network 140. In step 422 the
biometric digital artifact is verified and validated against previously recorded
valid biometric digital artifacts of the user using fuzzy logic, as described
above. The previously recorded valid digital artifacts may be stored in the
user fraud profile database 350 (FIG. 3) on server computer 300. In certain
embodiments, the biometric digital artifact provides the type of biometric
analyzed by the consumer device 110 and an indication of the correlation
between the user's biometric sample (second biometric data) and the
reference biometric sample (first biometric data).
[0083]          At step 424, a risk score associated with the payment
transaction is adjusted. As described above, the risk score may be based on
a number of valid biometric digital artifacts received without fraudulent activity.
Upon each subsequently received valid biometric digital artifact, the risk score
module 366 (FIG. 3) may adjust the risk score associated with the payment
user that is stored within the user fraud profile database 350 (FIG. 3) on
server computer 300.
[0084]          At step 426, the result of the determination as to whether a valid
biometric digital artifact was received is sent to the payment processor
network 140 (or a server computer therein). The payment processor network
140 records the fact that the verification (i.e., authentication) has occurred.
                                            21

Subsequent transactions repeat this process (steps 406-418) and over time
the biometric authentication process becomes increasingly trustworthy (e.g.,
 low risk) provided that no fraudulent activity is associated with the biometric
authentication process.
 [0085]         In some embodiments of the invention, the server computer in
the payment processing network 140 may not record the fact that verification
 has occurred until a predetermined period of time has elapsed (e.g., more
than 1, 3, 5 days, or more than 1 month). It may hold the digital artifact in a
queue (descried above) until the predetermined amount of time has elapsed.
That is, the biometric digital artifact is not deemed valid by the server
computer and is not used to create a model for future authentication, until a
period of time has elapsed. This is to present a possibly replay of a biometric
by an unauthorized user (e.g., a recorded voice of the authorized user, but
used by an unauthorized user to impersonate the authorized user). If the
authorized user has not reported that the transaction is fraudulent after the
period of time, then the transaction and the artifact are considered valid and
the artifact and biometric sample can be used to update a model and/or user
profile for the user for future transactions.
[0086]          FIG. 5A illustrates registering a user biometric via a thumbprint,
according to an embodiment of the present invention. As described above,
consumer device 110 includes a display 230 and a biometric sensor 220. The
biometric sensor 220 is configured to receive biometric data from the user. In
this example, the biometric sensor 220 is configured to receive a fingerprint
from a user.
[0087]          FIG. 5A illustrates an example of when a user wishes to register
their biometric data (first biometric data) for use with the consumer device
 110. The consumer device 110 may request the biometric data by displaying
a prompt for registration 510 on the display 230 indicating to the user to place
their finger on the biometric sensor 220. In this example, the prompt for
registration 510 requests the user to place their left thumb on the biometric
sensor 220 to register with the system. The display 230 may also display an
                                            22

image of a left thumbprint for purposes of aiding the user in placing the correct
finger on the biometric sensor 220.
[0088]         Upon the user placing their fingerprint on the biometric sensor
220 and registering their biometric data with the consumer device 110, the
user and consumer device 110 are ready for subsequent payment
transactions and their associated biometric authentication, as described
above. FIG. 5A illustrates steps 402 and 404 of FIG. 4.
[0089]         FIG. 5B illustrates authenticating a user via a thumbprint,
according to an embodiment of the present invention. As described above,
consumer device 110 includes a display 230 and a biometric sensor 220. The
biometric sensor 220 is configured to receive biometric data from the user. In
this example, the biometric sensor 220 is configured to receive a fingerprint
from a user.
[0090]         FIG. 5B illustrates an example of when a user wishes to
authenticate with the consumer device 110 using their biometric data (second
biometric data). The consumer device 110 may request the biometric data by
displaying a prompt for authentication 520 on the display 230 indicating to the
user to place their finger on the biometric sensor 220. In this example, the
prompt for registration 510 requests the user to place their left thumb on the
biometric sensor 220 to register with the system. The display 230 may also
display an image of a left thumbprint for purposes of aiding the user in placing
the correct finger on the biometric sensor 220.
[0091]         Upon the user placing their fingerprint on the biometric sensor
220 and authenticating their biometric data with the consumer device 110, the
consumer device 110 may compare the first and second set of biometric data
to determine whether the two match. The consumer device 110 may then
create a biometric digital artifact based on the second biometric and send
payment card data and the biometric digital artifact to the payment processor
network 140 (FIG. 1). FIG. 5B illustrates steps 406 through 414 of FIG. 4.
                                          23

[0092]         FIG. 6A illustrates registering a user biometric via a voice
sample, according to an embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 6A is
similar to FIG. 5A except that the biometric registration process uses a user
voice sample instead of a user thumbprint. Similar to FIG. 5A, the display 230
displays a prompt for registration 610 indicating to the user to speak a
predefined phrase to the biometric sensor 220. In this example, the biometric
sensor 220 is a microphone input device configured to receive a voice
sample. In this example, the prompt for registration 610 requests the user to
speak the phrase "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog" in order to
register the user biometric with the consumer device 110.
[0093]         FIG. 6B illustrates authenticating a user via a voice sample,
according to an embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 6B is similar to
FIG. 5B except that the biometric registration process uses a user voice
sample instead of a user thumbprint. Similar to FIG. 5B, the display 230
displays a prompt for authentication 620 indicating to the user to speak a
predefined phrase to the biometric sensor 220. In this example, the biometric
sensor 220 is a microphone input device configured to receive a voice
sample. In this example, the prompt for authentication 620 requests the user
to speak the phrase "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog" in order to
register the user biometric with the consumer device 110. It can be
appreciated that the phrases requests for registration and authentication may
be different.
[0094]         FIG. 7 illustrates a user fraud profile 350 stored within a
database, according to an embodiment of the present invention. In some
embodiments, the user fraud profile 350 may be stored within a database on
server computer 300 (FIG. 3). The user fraud profile 350 is configured to
store a fraud profile of a payment user. The fraud profile of a payment user
may include attributes such as, but not limited to, initiation date of the
payment transaction, initiation time of the payment transaction, the payment
user's name, the biometric digital artifact associated with the payment
                                            24

transaction, the outcome of payment user verification/authentication, and a
variable risk score for the user.
[0095]         FIG. 7 shows nine different payment authorization requests for a
user named "John Doe." Each of the nine payment authorization requests
includes the attribute information mentioned above.
[0096]         The date attribute of the user fraud profile 350 indicates the date
at which a user initiated a payment transaction with the consumer device 110
(FIG. 1). In this example, the first recorded date (1/4/2012) indicates the first
payment transaction initiated by the user after registering with the consumer
device 110. Each subsequent date represents a subsequent payment
transaction initiated by the user.
[0097]         The time attribute of the user fraud profile 350 indicates the time
of day on the date at which the user initiated the particular payment
transaction.
[0098]         The user attribute of the user fraud profile 350 indicates the
registered name for the genuine user. In this example, the registered name,
"John Doe" is the same for every payment authorization request. It can be
appreciated that the user fraud profile database 350 stores the recorded
payment authorization requests for each user in a unique location within the
database. Other locations within the database, not shown in this example,
may contain fraud profiles for other users having a different name.
[0099]         The digital artifact attribute of the user fraud profile 350 indicates
the particular biometric digital artifact that was generated by the consumer
device 110 (FIG. 1) upon biometric authentication of the user and sent to the
server computer 300 (FIG. 3). As mentioned above, the biometric digital
artifact for each individual payment transaction request initiated by the user is
unique. The biometric digital artifact includes information regarding the type
of biometric data received (e.g. voice sample, fingerprint, etc.) and the result
of the determination by the consumer device 110 (FIG. 1) as to whether the
                                             25

received biometric data (second biometric data) matches the registered
biometric data (first biometric data) from the user.
[0100]         FIG. 7 shows nine different cryptographically generated
biometric digital artifacts for each of the nine payment transactions initiated by
the user. As shown, each of the biometric digital artifacts is unique.
However, it can be seen that each biometric digital artifact only differs from
another slightly with a change in just a few bits of the cryptographically
generated values. Since it is highly unlikely that each received biometric data
from the user will be identical every time, the biometric digital artifacts are
unique for each transaction. For example, it is highly unlikely that a user will
place their finger in the same exact location on the biometric sensor 220 (FIG.
2) every time or that a user speaks in the same tone for the voice biometric
every time.
[0101]         The first biometric digital artifact (stored on 1/4/2012) is the
generated value upon a user performing their first payment authorization
request after registering with the consumer device 110 (FIG. 1). The second
stored biometric digital artifact is the generated value on a subsequent
payment authorization request. This second stored biometric digital artifact is
compared against the first stored biometric digital artifact using fuzzy logic,
described above. As long as the difference in the cryptographic values of the
two biometric digital artifacts is below a predefined threshold (e.g. a few bits),
the second biometric digital artifact will be considered to be valid. If a
received biometric digital artifact is significantly different than previously
received and stored biometric digital artifacts in the user fraud profile
database 350, the received biometric digital artifact may not be verified and
the payment transaction request may be denied for possible fear of a
fraudster wishing to initiate the payment transaction request.
[0102]         As more biometric digital artifacts are received and stored, more
comparison points for subsequently received biometric digital artifacts are
available. For example, the ninth received biometric digital artifact
                                            26

 (12/24/2012) may be compared against the previous eight stored biometric
digital artifacts in order to determine its validity.
 [0103]         The outcome attribute of the user fraud profile 350 indicates the
outcome of the validation of the received biometric digital artifact. If the fuzzy
 logic comparison of the received biometric digital artifact to previously stored
and verified biometric digital artifacts results in a valid comparison, the
received biometric digital artifact will be considered verified and will be stored
in the user fraud profile 350 for use in subsequent validations.
 [0104]         The risk score attribute of the user fraud profile 350 indicates a
risk score associated with the particular payment transaction request. In this
example, the risks score may be on a scale from 0-100, with 100 being the
highest (most risk). The risk score is adjustable for each payment transaction
request. As described above, the risk score module 366 (FIG. 3) is
configured to adjust the risk score. As more and more biometric digital
artifacts are received and verified by the server computer 300 (FIG. 3), the
risk score associated with the user decreases and the user may be
considered to be more trustworthy.
[0105]          As demonstrated in FIG. 7, the risk score is decreasing for each
subsequent payment transaction request initiated by user "John Doe." The
first received biometric digital artifact has the highest risk score of 99. Each
subsequent received and validated biometric digital artifact results in an
adjusted lowered risk score. The adjusting of the risk score may be
determined based on a predetermined formula. The current risk score for
user "John Doe" is 20, indicating that the user has performed a number of
valid authentications with the consumer device 110 (FIG. 1) and the user is
considered to be trustworthy (low risk).
     II.     Exemplary Methods
[0106]          FIG. 8 is a simplified flow diagram illustrating a method 800 for
authenticating a user for a transaction at a consumer device, according to an
embodiment of the present invention. The method 800 is performed by
                                            27

processing logic that may comprise hardware (circuitry, dedicated logic, etc.),
software (such as is run on a general purpose computing system or a
dedicated machine), firmware (embedded software), or any combination
thereof. In certain embodiments, the method 800 is performed by the
consumer device 110 of FIG. 1. The steps of method 800 correspond to the
steps in the flow diagram of FIG. 4.
[0107]         Referring to FIG. 8, the method 800 begins with registering a
first biometric data for a user (step 402). The user registers a first set of
biometric data (e.g., finger print, voice print, iris scan, etc.) on the consumer
device, which functions as reference data to compare subsequent biometric
scans. At 404, the consumer device stores the first set of biometric data in
memory. At 406, a user enters a biometric input (e.g., second biometric data)
into the consumer device. As described above, the user enters the biometric
data to begin the authentication process and initiate a financial transaction.
The biometric data may be received by the biometric sensor on the consumer
device. At step 408, the consumer device compares the first and second
biometric data to determine if they match according to a predetermined
criteria. For example, the consumer device can compare a user's fingerprint
to a fingerprint stored during the registration process (step 402) and
determine if the finger prints are sufficiently similar (e.g., finger prints have
matching identifiable features, patterns, ridges, etc.) to reasonably conclude
that the person conducting the transaction is who they claim to be. The
consumer device determines if the first and second user biometric data
matches (step 410), as described above, and creates a biometric digital
artifact based on the second biometric data (step 412). In some
embodiments, the biometric digital artifact can be based on both the first and
second biometric data. The biometric digital artifact may then be sent to the
payment processor network (step 414). The biometric digital artifact provides
the payment processing network with proof that the biometric authentication
process occurred and that it correlated according to a predetermined criteria.
                                           28

[0108]          In step 416, a connection is created between the consumer
device and a (POS) terminal. This connection may be created after the user
has registered their biometric data (first biometric) with the consumer device.
In step 418, the (POS) terminal sends the transaction data to the payment
processor network for payment processing. The transaction data includes
information pertinent to the particular transaction the user wishes to initiate
the payment request authorization for.
[0109]          It should be appreciated that the specific steps illustrated in FIG.
8 provides a particular method for authenticating a user for a transaction at a
consumer device, according to an embodiment of the present invention.
Other sequences of steps may also be performed according to alternative
embodiments. For example, alternative embodiments of the present invention
may perform the steps outlined above in a different order. Moreover, the
individual steps illustrated in FIG. 8 may include multiple sub-steps that may
be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step.
Furthermore, additional steps may be added or removed depending on the
particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and
appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives of the method 800.
[0110]          FIG. 9 is a simplified flow diagram illustrating a method 900 for
authenticating a user for a transaction at a server computer, according to an
embodiment of the present invention. The method 900 is performed by
processing logic that may comprise hardware (circuitry, dedicated logic, etc.),
software (such as is run on a general purpose computing system or a
dedicated machine), firmware (embedded software), or any combination
thereof. In certain embodiments, the method 900 is performed by a server
computer or plurality of server computers operated by the payment
processing network (PPN).
[0111]          Referring to FIG. 9, the method 900 begins with the payment
processing network receiving payment card data and a biometric digital
artifact from the consumer device. The payment processing network
determines if the biometric digital artifact is valid by forwarding the biometric
                                            29

 digital artifact to the server computer (step 420). The server computer may
 then make the validity determination based on a number of criteria (step 422).
 For example, the server computer may reject duplicate biometric digital
 artifact data or biometric digital artifact data that does not comply with the set
 of criteria. The server computer stores the biometric digital artifact within a
 user fraud profile database. At step 424, the server computer adjusts a risk
 score associated with the transaction based on the number of valid biometric
 digital artifact-based transactions received (and saved in the user fraud profile
 database) with no associated fraudulent activity. In other words, as more and
 more transactions are completed using the biometric digital artifact method
 described herein, the server computer can have increasing confidence that
 those transactions have been initiated by a valid user. In some embodiments,
 the risk score is stored in the user fraud profile database. The server
 computer then sends the determination of whether the received biometric
 digital artifact is valid to the PPN to facilitate completion of the transaction
 (step 426).
 [0112]          It should be appreciated that the specific steps illustrated in FIG.
9 provides a particular method for authenticating a user at a server computer,
according to an embodiment of the present invention. Other sequences of
steps may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For
example, alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the
steps outlined above in a different order. Moreover, the individual steps
illustrated in FIG. 9 may include multiple sub-steps that may be performed in
various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore,
additional steps may be added or removed depending on the particular
applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate
many variations, modifications, and alternatives of the method 900.
[0113]           FIG. 10 is a diagram of a computer apparatus 1000, according
to an example embodiment. The various participants and elements in the
previously described system diagram (e.g., the consumer device, payment
processing network, acquiring bank, issuing bank, etc., in FIG. 1) may use
                                              30

 any suitable number of subsystems in the computer apparatus to facilitate the
 methods and/or functions described herein. Examples of such subsystems or
 components are shown in FIG. 10. The subsystems shown in FIG. 10 are
 interconnected via a system bus 1005. Additional subsystems such as a
 printer 1040, keyboard 1070, fixed disk 1080 (or other memory comprising
 computer-readable media), monitor 1055, which is coupled to display adapter
 1050, and others are shown. Peripherals and input/output (1/O) devices (not
shown), which couple to I/O controller 1010, can be connected to the
computer system by any number of means known in the art, such as serial
port 1060. For example, serial port 1060 or external interface 1090 can be
used to connect the computer apparatus to a wide area network such as the
 Internet, a mouse input device, or a scanner. Alternatively, peripherals can be
connected wirelessly (e.g., IR, Bluetooth, etc.). The interconnection via
system bus allows the central processor 1030 to communicate with each
subsystem and to control the execution of instructions from system memory
1020 or the fixed disk 1080, as well as the exchange of information between
subsystems. The system memory 1020 and/or the fixed disk 1080 (e.g., hard
disk, solid state drive, etc.) may embody a computer-readable medium.
[0114]         The software components or functions described in this
application may be implemented as software code to be executed by one or
more processors using any suitable computer language such as, for example,
Java, C++ or Perl using, for example, conventional or object-oriented
techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions, or
commands on a computer-readable medium, such as a random access
memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), a magnetic medium such as a
hard-drive or a floppy disk, or an optical medium such as a CD-ROM. Any
such computer-readable medium may also reside on or within a single
computational apparatus, and may be present on or within different
computational apparatuses within a system or network.
[0115]         The present invention can be implemented in the form of control
logic in software or hardware or a combination of both. The control logic may
                                          31

be stored in an information storage medium as a plurality of instructions
adapted to direct an information processing device to perform a set of steps
disclosed in embodiments of the present invention. Based on the disclosure
and teachings provided herein, a person of ordinary skill in the art will
appreciate other ways and/or methods to implement the present invention.
[0116]         In embodiments, any of the entities described herein may be
embodied by a computer that performs any or all of the functions and steps
disclosed.
[0117]         Any recitation of "a", "an" or "the" is intended to mean "one or
more" unless specifically indicated to the contrary.
[0118]         One or more embodiments of the invention may be combined
with one or more other embodiments of the invention without departing from
the spirit and scope of the invention.
[0119]         The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive. Many
variations of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art
upon review of the disclosure. The scope of the invention should, therefore,
be determined not with reference to the above description, but instead should
be determined with reference to the pending claims along with their full scope
or equivalents.
                                           32

                                                 33
CLAIMS:
                1.      A method, comprising:
                receiving, by a server computer, a biometric digital artifact in conjunction with a
payment transaction, wherein the biometric digital artifact is generated by a consumer device and
comprises information regarding a type of biometric data, and a determination of a data match
between a first biometric data of a user and a second biometric data of the user;
                determining, by the server computer, that the biometric digital artifact is valid by
comparing the biometric digital artifact to a previously stored biometric digital artifact; and
                transmitting, by the server computer, an approval message after determining that
the biometric digital artifact is valid.
                2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the approval message is transmitted to a
payment processing network.
                3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the determining comprises verifying the
biometric digital artifact against one or more valid biometric digital artifacts.
                4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the consumer device is a mobile phone.
                5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the biometric digital artifact is a
cryptographically generated value.
                6.      The method of claim 1, wherein the biometric digital artifact is received by
the server computer from the consumer device.
                7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the biometric digital artifact is received by
the server computer from a point of sale terminal in communication with the consumer device.
                8.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
                receiving, by a payment processing network, payment information for the payment
transaction, wherein the payment information comprises credit or debit card account numbers.
14253874/P122666D1

                                                    34
                 9.      The method of claim 1, wherein the type of biometric data comprises
fingerprint data or voice sample data.
                  10.    The method of claim 1, further comprising:
                 receiving, by a payment processing network, payment information for the payment
transaction.
                  11.    A server computer comprising:
                 a processor; and
                 a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, comprising code executable
by the processor for implementing a method comprising:
                 receiving a biometric digital artifact in conjunction with a payment transaction,
wherein the biometric digital artifact is generated by a consumer device and comprises
information regarding a type of biometric data, and a determination of a data match between a
first biometric data of a user and a second biometric data of the user;
                 determining that the biometric digital artifact is valid by comparing the biometric
digital artifact to a previously stored biometric digital artifact; and
                 transmitting an approval message after determining that the biometric digital
artifact is valid.
                  12.    The server computer of claim 11, wherein the approval message is
transmitted to a payment processing network.
                  13.    The server computer of claim 11 wherein the determining comprises
verifying the biometric digital artifact against one or more valid biometric digital artifacts
                  14.    The server computer of claim 11, wherein the consumer device is a mobile
phone.
                  15.    The server computer of claim 11, wherein the biometric digital artifact is a
cryptographically generated value.
14253874/P122666D1

                                                 35
                 16.     The server computer of claim 11, wherein the biometric digital artifact is
received by the server computer from the consumer device.
                 17.     The server computer of claim 11, wherein the biometric digital artifact is
received by the server computer from a point of sale terminal in communication with the
consumer device.
                 18.     The server computer of claim 11, further comprising:
                 receiving, by a payment processing network, payment information for the payment
transaction, wherein the payment information comprises credit or debit card account numbers.
                 19.     The server computer of claim 11, wherein the type of biometric data
comprises fingerprint data or voice sample data.
                 20.     The server computer of claim 11, further comprising:
                 receiving, by a payment processing network, payment information for the payment
transaction.
                             Visa International Service Association
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON
14253874/P122666D1

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       7/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      9/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       10/10

