                            ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         The present disclosure provides mixtures of prenylated flavonoids, stilbenes, or
both with flavans or curcuminoids or both capable of useful for promoting, managing or
improving bone health, cartilage health or both, or for preventing or treating a bone
disorder, cartilage disorder or both. Such a mixture of prenylated flavonoids, stilbenes,
or both with flavans or curcuminoids or both can optionally be used in combination
with other bone and cartilage management agents, such as calcium, magnesium, zinc,
boron, vitamin D, vitamin K, glucosamine and/or chondroitin compounds, non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory agents/analgesics, COX/LOX inhibiting agents, neuropathic pain
relief agents, or the like.

         COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR MANAGING OR IMPROVING
                 BONE DISORDERS, CARTILAGE DISORDERS, OR BOTH
   BACKGROUND
           Reduced bone density, which often evolves into osteoporosis in aging
 5 populations, especially pre- and post-menopausal women, is an important health
   concern. Osteoporosis is defined clinically through the measurement of bone mineral
   density (BMD), which remains the best predictor of primary osteoporotic fractures
   (Kanis et al., Osteoporos.Int. 16:581, 2005). Systemic inflammation is frequently
   associated with accelerated bone reabsorption, which leads to bone loss. Various
10 mechanisms, such as elevated PGE2, TNF-a, IL- 1f3 and other pro-inflammatory
   cytokines, have been proposed to be involved with bone loss under inflammatory
   conditions (Hardy and Cooper, J Endocrinol.201:309, 2009).
           It has been shown that NSAIDs inhibit the COX enzyme and decrease
   production of prostaglandins, which are involved in the regulation of bone turnover
15 (Raisz et al., Osteoporos.Int. 3(Suppl 1):136, 1993). The use of cyclooxygenase-2
   (COX-2) inhibitors has been demonstrated not only to impair load-induced bone
   formation, but also to prevent menopause-associated BMD loss (Richards et al.,
   Osteoporos.Int. 17:1410, 2006). For example, diclofenac is an NSAID that inhibits
   both COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes (Richards et al., 2006). In a human clinical trial,
20 diclofenac was almost as effective as conjugated estrogens for protection of bone loss in
   postmenopausal women (Bruce et al., Am. J Med. 96:349, 1994). Cottrell et al. (Bone
   Joint Res. 2:41, 2013), have reported that a 5-lipoxygenase (LOX) inhibitor can
   enhance bone regeneration in an animal model. In human clinical trials in
   postmenopausal women, regular use of the combination of a COX-2 selective NSAID
25 and aspirin has been shown to result in higher BMD at all skeletal sites, including
   whole body and total hip, as measured by bone density scanning (DXA) and both
   trabecular and cortical BMD of the lumbar spine by quantitative computer tomography
   (QCT) (Carbone et al., J Bone Miner. Res. 18:1795, 2003).
                                                1

   BRIEF SUMMARY
           In brief, the present disclosure is directed to compounds and compositions
   useful for management of bone disorders, cartilage disorders or both, and to methods of
   improving bone health, cartilage health or both.
 5         In certain embodiments, this disclosure provides a composition comprising a
   mixture of a Morus extract, optionally enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids
   (e.g., Diels-Alder adducts of a chalcone and a prenylphenyl moiety), or one or more
   stilbenes, or a combination thereof, and an Acacia extract, optionally enriched for
   flavans. In further embodiments, this disclosure provides a composition comprising a
10 mixture of a Morus extract, optionally enriched for prenylated flavonoids (e.g., Diels
   Alder adducts of a chalcone and a prenylphenyl moiety), or one or more stilbenes, or a
   combination thereof, and an Uncariagambir extract, optionally enriched for flavans. In
   further embodiments, this disclosure provides a composition comprising a mixture of a
   Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids (e.g., Diels-Alder adducts
15 of a chalcone and a prenylphenyl moiety), or one or more stilbenes, or a combination
   thereof, and a Curcuma extract, optionally enriched for curcuminoids. In other
   embodiments, this disclosure provides a composition comprising a mixture of a Morus
   extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids (e.g., Diels-Alder adducts of a
   chalcone and a prenylphenyl moiety), or one or more stilbenes, and a Peppermint
20 extract. In other embodiments, any of the compositions further, optionally, contain one
   or more of calcium, vitamin D, glucosamine compounds, such as N-acetyl glucosamine,
   and other bioactive compounds.
           For example, a mixture of Curcuma and Morus alba root-bark extracts in a 1:1
   ratio demonstrated beneficial synergistic effects with enhanced bone and cartilage
25 health compared with either Curcuma or Morus alba root-bark extracts alone.
           In another aspect, the present disclosure provides methods for managing bone
   disorders, cartilage disorders, or both. In certain embodiments, the compositions of this
   disclosure can be used in methods for treating, preventing, or managing bone disorders,
   cartilage disorders, or both, minimizing bone reabsorption, reducing cartilage
30 degradation, promoting healthy bone density, protecting bone integrity, cartilage
   integrity or both, diminishing the action of enzymes that affect bone health, cartilage
                                                  2

   health or both, increase or maintain bone density, improving bone function, cartilage
   function or both, alleviating joint pain, alleviating joint stiffness, improving joint range
   of motion, flexibility or both, promoting mobility, or any combination thereof.
            These and other aspects of the invention will be apparent upon reference to the
 5 following detailed description.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Figure 1 shows bone histomorphometry evaluated on both femur and tibia per
   knee joint by Micro CT scan in rats having MIA-induced osteoarthritis, with or without
   treatment with a composition comprising an Uncaria extract and a Morus extract.
10 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            In certain aspects, the present disclosure provides prenylated flavonoids and
   resveratrol compounds mixed with flavans or curcuminoids for use in improving bone
   health, cartilage health or both. In certain embodiments, prenylated flavonoids and
   resveratrol compounds are extracted from Morus alba plant material, such as from the
15 Morus alba root. In other embodiments, a Morus extract combined with flavans is
   optionally further combined with management agents for bone health, cartilage health
   or both, such as calcium (for example, found in the form of calcium citrate, calcium
   fructoborate, calcium carbonate, calcium lactate, calcium gluconate, or calcium
   phosphate), magnesium, boron, zinc, vitamin D, vitamin K, or other minerals and
20 vitamins. Other dietary supplements that promote joint health, such as glucosamine
   compounds (like glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine hydrochloride, N
   acetylglucosamine), chondroitin sulfate and methylsulfonylmethane, hyaluronic acid,
   co-3 fatty acids (such as eicosapentaenoic acid, EPA and docosahexaenoic acid, DHA),
   hydrolyzed collagen (e.g., from bovine type I collagen, chicken sternal type II
25 collagen), collagen derived peptides or a mixture of collagen amino acids, xanthophyll
   carotenoids (e.g., astaxanthin, which is distributed in marine bacteria, algae,
   crustaceans, fish); non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents/analgesics, COX/LOX
   inhibitory agents (such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, celecoxib); neuropathic pain relief
   agents, herbal or plant extracts (such as a Boswellia extract).
                                                  3

            Other aspects relate to methods of using compositions of this disclosure, such as
   for maintaining bone structure, cartilage structure or both, minimizing bone
   reabsorption, preventing cartilage degradation, increasing bone density, promoting
   healthy joints by protecting cartilage integrity, diminishing the action of enzymes that
 5 affect bone health, cartilage health, or both, improving joint movement or function,
   alleviating joint pain, alleviating joint discomfort, alleviating joint pain and discomfort,
   alleviating joint stiffness, improving joint range of motion or flexibility, promote
   mobility, or the like.
            In the following description, certain specific details are set forth in order to
10 provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of this disclosure. However,
   one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these
   details.
            In the present description, any concentration range, percentage range, ratio
   range, or integer range is to be understood to include the value of any integer within the
15 recited range and, when appropriate, fractions thereof (such as one tenth and one
   hundredth of an integer), unless otherwise indicated. Also, any number range recited
   herein relating to any physical feature, such as polymer subunits, size or thickness, are
   to be understood to include any integer within the recited range, unless otherwise
   indicated. As used herein, the terms "about" and "consisting essentially of' mean ± 20%
20 of the indicated range, value, or structure, unless otherwise indicated. It should be
   understood that the terms "a" and "an" as used herein refer to "one or more" of the
   enumerated components. The use of the alternative (e.g., "or") should be understood to
   mean either one, both, or any combination thereof of the alternatives. Unless the
   context requires otherwise, throughout the present specification and claims, the word
25 "comprise" and variations thereof, such as, "comprises" and "comprising," as well as
   synonymous terms like "include" and "have" and variants thereof, are to be construed in
   an open, inclusive sense; that is, as "including, but not limited to."
            Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an
   embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
30 connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
                                                  4

   invention. Thus, the appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an
   embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
   referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or
   characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.
 5         "Amino" refers to the -NH 2 radical.
           "Cyano" refers to the -CN radical.
           "Hydroxy" or "hydroxyl" refers to the -OH radical.
           "Imino" refers to the =NH substituent.
           "Nitro" refers to the -NO 2 radical.
10         "Oxo" refers to the =0 substituent.
           "Thioxo" refers to the =S substituent.
           "Alkyl" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting
   solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms, which is saturated or unsaturated (i.e., contains
   one or more double or triple bonds), having from one to twelve carbon atoms (C 1 -C 12
15 alkyl), or one to eight carbon atoms (C1 -C8 alkyl) or one to six carbon atoms (C1 -C6
   alkyl), and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond, e.g., methyl,
   ethyl, n-propyl, 1-methylethyl (iso-propyl), n-butyl, n-pentyl, 1,1 -dimethylethyl
   (t-butyl), 3-methylhexyl, 2-methylhexyl, ethenyl, prop-1-enyl, but-1-enyl, pent-1-enyl,
   penta-1,4-dienyl, ethynyl, propynyl, butynyl, pentynyl, hexynyl, and the like. Unless
20 stated otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkyl group may be optionally
   substituted.
           "Alkylene" or "alkylene chain" refers to a straight or branched divalent
   hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group, consisting solely
   of carbon and hydrogen, which is saturated or unsaturated (i.e., contains one or more
25 double or triple bonds), and having from one to twelve carbon atoms, e.g., methylene,
   ethylene, propylene, n-butylene, ethenylene, propenylene, n-butenylene, propynylene,
   n-butynylene, and the like. The alkylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule
   through a single or double bond and to the radical group through a single or double
   bond. The points of attachment of the alkylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to
30 the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain.
                                                  5

   Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkylene chain may be
   optionally substituted.
           "Alkoxy" refers to a radical of the formula -ORa where Ra is an alkyl radical as
   defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise
 5 specifically in the specification, an alkoxy group may be optionally substituted.
           "Alkylamino" refers to a radical of the formula -NHRa or -NRaRa where each Ra
   is, independently, an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon
   atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkylamino group
   may be optionally substituted.
10         "Thioalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -SRa where Ra is an alkyl radical as
   defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise
   specifically in the specification, a thioalkyl group may be optionally substituted.
           "Aryl" refers to a hydrocarbon ring system radical comprising hydrogen, 6 to 18
   carbon atoms and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this disclosure, the aryl
15 radical may be a monocyclic, bicyclic, tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system, which may
   include fused or bridged ring systems. Aryl radicals include aryl radicals derived from
   aceanthrylene, acenaphthylene, acephenanthrylene, anthracene, azulene, benzene,
   chrysene, fluoranthene, fluorene, as-indacene, s-indacene, indane, indene, naphthalene,
   phenalene, phenanthrene, pleiadene, pyrene, and triphenylene. Unless stated otherwise
20 specifically in the specification, the term "aryl" or the prefix "ar-" (such as in "aralkyl")
   is meant to include aryl radicals that are optionally substituted.
           "Aralkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -Rb-Rc where Rb is an alkylene chain
   as defined above and Re is one or more aryl radicals as defined above, for example,
   benzyl, diphenylmethyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the
25 specification, an aralkyl group may be optionally substituted.
           "Cycloalkyl" or "carbocyclic ring" refers to a stable non-aromatic monocyclic or
   polycyclic hydrocarbon radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms, which
   may include fused or bridged ring systems, having from three to fifteen carbon atoms,
   or having from three to ten carbon atoms, and which is saturated or unsaturated and
30 attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Monocyclic radicals include, for
   example, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, and cyclooctyl.
                                                  6

   Polycyclic radicals include, for example, adamantyl, norbomyl, decalinyl,
   7,7-dimethyl-bicyclo[2.2. 1]heptanyl, and the like. Unless otherwise stated specifically
   in the specification, a cycloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.
           "Cycloalkylalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -RbRd where Rb is an
 5 alkylene chain as defined above and Rd is a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. Unless
   stated otherwise specifically in the specification, a cycloalkylalkyl group may be
   optionally substituted.
           "Fused" refers to any ring structure described herein which is fused to an
   existing ring structure in the compounds of this disclosure. When the fused ring is a
10 heterocyclyl ring or a heteroaryl ring, any carbon atom on the existing ring structure
   which becomes part of the fused heterocyclyl ring or the fused heteroaryl ring may be
   replaced with a nitrogen atom.
           "Halo" or "halogen" refers to bromo, chloro, fluoro or iodo.
           "Haloalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined above, that is substituted by
15 one or more halo radicals, as defined above, e.g., trifluoromethyl, difluoromethyl,
   trichloromethyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl, 1,2-difluoroethyl, 3-bromo-2-fluoropropyl,
   1,2-dibromoethyl, and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification,
   a haloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.
           "Heterocyclyl" or "heterocyclic ring" refers to a stable 3- to 18-membered
20 non-aromatic ring radical which consists of two to twelve carbon atoms and from one to
   six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur.
   Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, the heterocyclyl radical may be
   a monocyclic, bicyclic, tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system, which may include fused or
   bridged ring systems; and the nitrogen, carbon or sulfur atoms in the heterocyclyl
25 radical may be optionally oxidized; the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized;
   and the heterocyclyl radical may be partially or fully saturated. Examples of such
   heterocyclyl radicals include dioxolanyl, thienyl[1,3]dithianyl, decahydroisoquinolyl,
   imidazolinyl, imidazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl, morpholinyl,
   octahydroindolyl, octahydroisoindolyl, 2-oxopiperazinyl, 2-oxopiperidinyl,
30 2-oxopyrrolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, 4-piperidonyl, pyrrolidinyl,
   pyrazolidinyl, quinuclidinyl, thiazolidinyl, tetrahydrofuryl, trithianyl,
                                                 7

   tetrahydropyranyl, thiomorpholinyl, thiamorpholinyl, 1-oxo-thiomorpholinyl, and
   1,1-dioxo-thiomorpholinyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, a
   heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.
            "N-heterocyclyl" refers to a heterocyclyl radical as defined above containing at
 5 least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heterocyclyl radical to the
   rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclyl radical. Unless stated
   otherwise specifically in the specification, a N-heterocyclyl group may be optionally
   substituted.
            "Heterocyclylalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -RbRe where Rb is an
10 alkylene chain as defined above and Re is a heterocyclyl radical as defined above, and if
   the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen-containing heterocyclyl, the heterocyclyl may be attached
   to the alkyl radical at the nitrogen atom. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the
   specification, a heterocyclylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.
            "Heteroaryl" refers to a 5- to 14-membered ring system radical comprising
15 hydrogen atoms, one to thirteen carbon atoms, one to six heteroatoms selected from the
   group consisting of nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur, and at least one aromatic ring. For
   purposes of this disclosure, the heteroaryl radical may be a monocyclic, bicyclic,
   tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system, which may include fused or bridged ring systems;
   and the nitrogen, carbon or sulfur atoms in the heteroaryl radical may be optionally
20 oxidized; the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. Examples include azepinyl,
   acridinyl, benzimidazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzindolyl, benzodioxolyl, benzofuranyl,
   benzooxazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzothiadiazolyl, benzo[b][1,4]dioxepinyl,
   1,4-benzodioxanyl, benzonaphthofuranyl, benzoxazolyl, benzodioxolyl, benzodioxinyl,
   benzopyranyl, benzopyranonyl, benzofuranyl, benzofuranonyl, benzothienyl
25 (benzothiophenyl), benzotriazolyl, benzo[4,6]imidazo[1,2-a]pyridinyl, carbazolyl,
   cinnolinyl, dibenzofuranyl, dibenzothiophenyl, furanyl, furanonyl, isothiazolyl,
   imidazolyl, indazolyl, indolyl, indazolyl, isoindolyl, indolinyl, isoindolinyl, isoquinolyl,
   indolizinyl, isoxazolyl, naphthyridinyl, oxadiazolyl, 2-oxoazepinyl, oxazolyl, oxiranyl,
   1-oxidopyridinyl, 1-oxidopyrimidinyl, 1-oxidopyrazinyl, 1-oxidopyridazinyl,
30 1-phenyl-1H-pyrrolyl, phenazinyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxazinyl, phthalazinyl,
   pteridinyl, purinyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl,
                                                 8

   quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, quinuclidinyl, isoquinolinyl,
   tetrahydroquinolinyl, thiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, triazinyl, and
   thiophenyl (i.e. thienyl). Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, a
   heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted.
 5         "N-heteroaryl" refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above containing at least
   one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of
   the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl radical. Unless stated
   otherwise specifically in the specification, an N-heteroaryl group may be optionally
   substituted.
10         "Heteroarylalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -RbRf where Rb is an
   alkylene chain as defined above and Rf is a heteroaryl radical as defined above. Unless
   stated otherwise specifically in the specification, a heteroarylalkyl group may be
   optionally substituted.
           The term "substituted" used herein means any of the above groups (i.e., alkyl,
15 alkylene, alkoxy, alkylamino, thioalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl,
   haloalkyl, heterocyclyl, N-heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl, N-heteroaryl or
   heteroarylalkyl), wherein at least one hydrogen atom is replaced by a bond to a non
   hydrogen atoms such as a halogen atom such as F, Cl, Br, and I; an oxygen atom in
   groups such as hydroxyl groups, alkoxy groups, and ester groups; a sulfur atom in
20 groups such as thiol groups, thioalkyl groups, sulfone groups, sulfonyl groups, and
   sulfoxide groups; a nitrogen atom in groups such as amines, amides, alkylamines,
   dialkylamines, arylamines, alkylarylamines, diarylamines, N-oxides, imides, and
   enamines; a silicon atom in groups such as trialkylsilyl groups, dialkylarylsilyl groups,
   alkyldiarylsilyl groups, and triarylsilyl groups; and other heteroatoms in various other
25 groups. "Substituted" also means any of the above groups in which one or more
   hydrogen atoms are replaced by a higher-order bond (e.g., a double- or triple-bond) to a
   heteroatom, such as oxygen in oxo, carbonyl, carboxyl, and ester groups; and nitrogen
   in groups such as imines, oximes, hydrazones, and nitriles. For example, "substituted"
   includes any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced
30 with -NRgRh, -NRgC(=0)Rh, -NRgC(=0)NRgRh, -NRgC(=0)ORh, -NRgSO2Rh,
   OC(=0)NRgRh, -ORg, -SRg, -SORg, -SO2Rg, -OSO2Rg, -SO2ORg, =NSO2Rg, and
                                                 9

   SO2NRgRh. "Substituted" also means any of the above groups in which one or more
   hydrogen atoms are replaced with -C(=O)Rg, -C(=O)ORg, -C(=0)NRgRh, -CH2SO2Rg,
   CH 2 SO 2NRgRh. In the foregoing, Rg and Rh are the same or different and independently
   hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, alkylamino, thioalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl,
 5 cycloalkylalkyl, haloalkyl, heterocyclyl, N-heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl,
   N-heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl. "Substituted" further means any of the above groups in
   which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by a bond to an amino, cyano,
   hydroxyl, imino, nitro, oxo, thioxo, halo, alkyl, alkoxy, alkylamino, thioalkyl, aryl,
   aralkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, haloalkyl, heterocyclyl, N-heterocyclyl,
10 heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl, N-heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl group. In addition, each of
   the foregoing substituents may also be optionally substituted with one or more of the
   above substituents.
           "Glycoside" refers to a molecule in which a sugar group is bonded through its
   anomeric carbon to another group via a glycosidic bond. Exemplary sugars include
15 glucose, rhanmose, manose, galactose, arabinose, glucuronide and others. Glycosides
   can be linked by an 0- (an 0-glycoside), N- (a glycosylamine), S- (a thioglycoside), or
   C- (a C-glycoside) glycosidic bond. Compounds of this disclosure can form glycosides
   at any suitable attachment point.
           A "prenyl group" is a moiety comprising a five-carbon backbone of the
20 following structure:             . In some embodiments, prenyl groups comprise one or
   more carbon-carbon double bonds and/or are substituted with one or more substituents.
   "Prenyl" refers to the              radical. Isoprenyl refers to the            radical (cis
   or trans). Prenyl groups are substituted or unsubstituted, such as             OH or
25         "Prenylphenyl" refers to a phenyl moiety connected to a prenyl moiety as
   defined above. Prenylphenyls include substituted phenyls such as flavonoids and other
   substituted phenyls and heteroaryls, provided there is at least one prenyl group in the
   molecule. In the case of substituted phenyls and heteroaryl, the prenyl moiety need not
   be directly attached to the phenyl ring, but can be attached at any point in the molecule.
                                                 10

           "Chalcone" refers to a compound comprising the following core structure:
                                                O
                                              0
   Chalcones can be variously substituted at any of the above carbon atoms.
           "Prodrug" is meant to indicate a compound that may be converted under
 5 physiological conditions or by solvolysis to a biologically active compound of this
   disclosure. Thus, the term "prodrug" refers to a metabolic precursor of a compound of
   this disclosure that is pharmaceuticallyand nutraceutically acceptable. A prodrug may
   be inactive when administered to a subject in need thereof, but is converted in vivo to an
   active compound of this disclosure. Prodrugs are typically rapidly transformed in vivo
10 to yield the parent compound of this disclosure, for example, by hydrolysis in blood or
   intestine or metabolized in the liver. The prodrug compound often offers advantages of
   solubility, tissue compatibility or delayed release in a mammalian organism (see
   Bundgard, H., Design of Prodrugs (1985), pp. 7-9, 21-24 (Elsevier, Amsterdam)). A
   discussion of prodrugs is provided in Higuchi, T., et al., A.C.S. Symposium Series, Vol.
15 14, and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design, Ed. Edward B. Roche, American
   Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Association and Pergamon Press, 1987.
           The term "prodrug" is also meant to include any covalently bonded carriers,
   which release the active compound of this disclosure in vivo when such prodrug is
   administered to a mammalian subject. Prodrugs of a compound of this disclosure may
20 be prepared by modifying functional groups present in the compound of this disclosure
   in such a way that the modifications are cleaved, either in routine manipulation or in
   vivo, to the parent compound of this disclosure. Prodrugs include compounds of this
   disclosure wherein a hydroxy, amino or mercapto group is bonded to any group that,
   when the prodrug of the compound of this disclosure is administered to a mammalian
25 subject, cleaves to form a free hydroxy, free amino or free mercapto group,
   respectively. Examples of prodrugs include acetate, formate and benzoate derivatives of
   alcohol or amide derivatives of amine functional groups in the compounds of this
   disclosure and the like.
                                                11

            The instant disclosure is also meant to encompass all pharmaceutically or
   nutraceutically acceptable compounds of any one of structures (I)-(VI) being
   isotopically-labelled by having one or more atoms replaced by an atom having a
   different atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated
 5 into the disclosed compounds include isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen,
   phosphorous, fluorine, chlorine, and iodine, such as 2H, 3H, "C, 1C, 14C, 1N, 1N,             o,
     o, 10, 3P, 32P,       18 F, 36Cl, 123I, and 125I, respectively. These radiolabelled
   compounds could be useful to help determine or measure the effectiveness of the
   compounds, by characterizing, for example, the site or mode of action, or binding
10 affinity to pharmacologically important site of action. Certain isotopically-labelled
   compounds of any one of structures (I)-(VI), for example, those incorporating a
   radioactive isotope, are useful in drug or substrate tissue distribution studies. The
   radioactive isotopes tritium, i.e.,  3H,  and carbon-14, i.e.,   4C, are particularly useful for
   this purpose in view of their ease of incorporation and ready means of detection.
15          Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium, i.e.,      2H, may afford certain
   therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, for example,
   increased in vivo half-life or reduced dosage requirements, and hence may be preferred
   in some circumstances.
            Substitution with positron emitting isotopes, such as "C, '8F, "0 and 3N, can
20 be useful in Positron Emission Topography (PET) studies for examining substrate
   receptor occupancy. Isotopically-labeled compounds of any one of structures (I)-(VI)
   can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art
   or by processes analogous to those described in the preparations and examples as set out
   herein using an appropriate isotopically-labeled reagent in place of the non-labeled
25 reagent previously employed.
            The instant disclosure is also meant to encompass the in vivo metabolic products
   of the disclosed compounds. Such products may result from, for example, the
   oxidation, reduction, hydrolysis, amidation, esterification, and the like of the
   administered compound, primarily due to enzymatic processes. Accordingly, this
30 disclosure includes compounds produced by a process comprising administering a
   compound of this disclosure to a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a
                                                    12

   metabolic product thereof. Such products are typically identified by administering a
   radiolabelled compound of this disclosure in a detectable dose to an animal, such as rat,
   mouse, guinea pig, dog, cat, pig, sheep, horse, monkey, or human, allowing sufficient
   time for metabolism to occur, and isolating its conversion products from the urine,
 5 blood or other biological samples.
            "Stable compound" and "stable structure" are meant to indicate a compound that
   is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction
   mixture, and formulation into an efficacious therapeutic agent.
            "Mammal" includes humans, domestic animals (such as laboratory animals or
10 household pets like rat, mouse, guinea pig, cats, dogs, swine, cattle, sheep, goats,
   horses, rabbits, primates), and non-domestic animals (such as wildlife) or the like.
            "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described element,
   component, event or circumstances may or may not occur, and includes instances where
   the element, component, event or circumstance occur and instances in which they do
15 not. For example, "optionally substituted aryl" means that the aryl radical may or may
   not be substituted - in other words, the description includes both substituted aryl
   radicals and aryl radicals having no substitution.
            "Pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient"
   includes any adjuvant, carrier, excipient, glidant, sweetening agent, diluent,
20 preservative, dye/colorant, flavor enhancer, surfactant, wetting agent, dispersing agent,
   suspending agent, stabilizer, isotonic agent, solvent, or emulsifier which has been
   approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as being acceptable for
   use in humans or domestic animals.
            "Pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable salt" includes both acid and
25 base addition salts.
            "Pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable acid addition salt" refers to
   those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases,
   which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable, and which are formed with
   inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid,
30 phosphoric acid and the like, and organic acids such as acetic acid, 2,2-dichloroacetic
   acid, adipic acid, alginic acid, ascorbic acid, aspartic acid, benzenesulfonic acid,
                                                  13

   benzoic acid, 4-acetamidobenzoic acid, camphoric acid, camphor-O-sulfonic acid,
   capric acid, caproic acid, caprylic acid, carbonic acid, cinnamic acid, citric acid,
   cyclamic acid, dodecylsulfuric acid, ethane- 1,2-disulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 2
   hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid, galactaric acid, gentisic acid,
 5 glucoheptonic acid, gluconic acid, glucuronic acid, glutamic acid, glutaric acid, 2-oxo
   glutaric acid, glycerophosphoric acid, glycolic acid, hippuric acid, isobutyric acid, lactic
   acid, lactobionic acid, lauric acid, maleic acid, malic acid, malonic acid, mandelic acid,
   methanesulfonic acid, mucic acid, naphthalene-1,5-disulfonic acid, naphthalene-2
   sulfonic acid, 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, nicotinic acid, oleic acid, orotic acid, oxalic
10 acid, palmitic acid, pamoic acid, propionic acid, pyroglutamic acid, pyruvic acid,
   salicylic acid, 4-aminosalicylic acid, sebacic acid, stearic acid, succinic acid, tartaric
   acid, thiocyanic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, undecylenic acid, or
   the like.
            "Pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable base addition salt" refers to
15 those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free acids,
   which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. These salts are prepared from
   addition of an inorganic base or an organic base to the free acid. Salts derived from
   inorganic bases include the sodium, potassium, lithium, ammonium, calcium,
   magnesium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, aluminum salts and the like. In certain
20 embodiments, the inorganic salts are ammonium, sodium, potassium, calcium, or
   magnesium salts. Salts derived from organic bases include salts of primary, secondary,
   and tertiary amines, substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted
   amines, cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins, such as ammonia, isopropylamine,
   trimethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, tripropylamine, diethanolamine,
25 ethanolamine, deanol, 2-dimethylaminoethanol, 2-diethylaminoethanol,
   dicyclohexylamine, lysine, arginine, histidine, procaine, hydrabamine, choline, betaine,
   benethamine, benzathine, ethylenediamine, glucosamine, methylglucamine,
   theobromine, triethanolamine, tromethamine, purines, piperazine, piperidine,
   N-ethylpiperidine, polyamine resins and the like. Particularly useful organic bases
30 include isopropylamine, diethylamine, ethanolamine, trimethylamine,
   dicyclohexylamine, choline, or caffeine.
                                                 14

            Often crystallizations produce a solvate of the compound of this disclosure. As
   used herein, the term "solvate" refers to an aggregate that comprises one or more
   molecules of a compound of this disclosure with one or more molecules of solvent. The
   solvent may be water, in which case the solvate may be a hydrate. Alternatively, the
 5 solvent may be an organic solvent. Thus, the compounds of the present disclosure may
   exist as a hydrate, including a monohydrate, dihydrate, hemihydrate, sesquihydrate,
   trihydrate, tetrahydrate and the like, as well as the corresponding solvated forms. The
   compound of this disclosure may be true solvates, while in other cases, a compound of
   this disclosure may merely retain adventitious water or be a mixture of water plus some
10 adventitious solvent.
            A "pharmaceutical composition" or "nutraceutical composition" refers to a
   formulation of a compound of this disclosure and a medium generally accepted in the
   art for the delivery of the biologically active compound to mammals, e.g., humans. For
   example, a pharmaceutical composition of the present disclosure may be formulated or
15 used as a stand alone composition, or as a component in a prescription drug, an over
   the-counter (OTC) medicine, a botanical drug, an herbal medicine, a homeopathic
   agent, functional foods, or any other form of health care product reviewed and approved
   by a government agency. Exemplary nutraceutical compositions of the present
   disclosure may be formulated or used as a stand alone composition, or as a nutritional
20 or bioactive component in food, a novel food, a functional food, a beverage, a bar, a
   food flavor, a food additive, a medical food, a dietary supplement, or an herbal product.
   A medium generally accepted in the art includes all pharmaceutically or nutraceutically
   acceptable carriers, diluents or excipients therefor.
            As used herein, "enriched for" refers to a plant extract or other preparation
25 having at least a two-fold up to about a 1000-fold increase in the amount or activity of
   one or more active compounds as compared to the amount or activity of the one or more
   active compounds found in the weight of the plant material or other source before
   extraction or other preparation. In certain embodiments, the weight of the plant material
   or other source before extraction or other preparation may be dry weight, wet weight, or
30 a combination thereof.
                                                 15

           As used herein, "major active ingredient" or "major active component" refers to
   one or more active compounds found in a plant extract or other preparation, or enriched
   for in a plant extract or other preparation, which is capable of at least one biological
   activity. In certain embodiments, a major active ingredient of an enriched extract will
 5 be the one or more active compounds that were enriched in that extract. Generally, one
   or more major active components will impart, directly or indirectly, most (i.e., greater
   than 50%) of one or more measurable biological activities or effects as compared to
   other extract components. In certain embodiments, a major active ingredient may be a
   minor component by weight percentage of an extract (e.g., less than 50%, 25%, 20%,
10 15 %, 10%, 50%, or 1% of the components contained in an extract) but still provide most
   of the desired biological activity. Any composition of this disclosure containing a major
   active ingredient may also contain minor active ingredients that may or may not
   contribute to the pharmaceutical or nutraceutical activity of the enriched composition,
   but not to the level of major active components, and minor active components alone
15 may not be effective in the absence of a major active ingredient.
            "Effective amount" or "therapeutically effective amount" refers to that amount
   of a compound or composition of this disclosure that, when administered to a mammal,
   such as a human, is sufficient to effect treatment, including any one or more of: (1)
   treating or preventing loss of bone and cartilage in a mammal; (2) promoting bone and
20 cartilage health; (3) suppressing loss of bone and cartilage in a mammal; (4) increasing
   bone density in a mammal; (5) treating or preventing eosteoporosis in a mammal; (6)
   modifying inflammation of bone and cartilage in a mammal; and (7) protecting bone
   and cartilage integrity. The amount of a compound or composition of this disclosure
   that constitutes a "therapeutically effective amount" will vary depending on the
25 compound, the condition being treated and its severity, the manner of administration,
   the duration of treatment, or the body weight and age of a subject to be treated, but can
   be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art having regard to his own knowledge
   and to this disclosure.
            "Supplements" as used herein refers to a product that improves, promotes,
30 supports, increases, regulates, manages, controls, maintains, optimizes, modifies,
   reduces, inhibits, or prevents a particular condition, structure or function associated
                                                 16

   with a natural state or biological process (i.e., are not used to diagnose, treat, mitigate,
   cure, or prevent disease). In certain embodiments, a supplement is a dietary supplement.
   For example, with regard to bone and cartilage health-related conditions, dietary
   supplements may be used to maintain bone and cartilage integrity, minimize bone
 5 reabsorption, minimize cartilage degradation, promote healthy bone and cartilage by
   protecting bone and cartilage integrity, diminish the action of enzymes that affect bone
   and cartilage health, improve oesteoprosis condition, support bone rebuild, alleviate
   pain, alleviate discomfort, alleviate stiffness, improve range of motion, improve
   flexibility, promote mobility, or the like. In certain embodiments, dietary supplements
10 are a special category of diet, food or both, and are not a drug.
            "Treating" or "treatment" or "ameliorating" refers to either a therapeutic
   treatment or prophylactic/preventative treatment of a disease or condition of interest in
   a mammal, such as a human, having or suspected of having a disease or condition of
   interest, and includes: (i) preventing the disease or condition from occurring in a
15 mammal, in particular, when such mammal is predisposed to the condition but has not
   yet been diagnosed as having it; (ii) inhibiting the disease or condition, i.e., arresting its
   development; (iii) relieving the disease or condition, i.e., causing regression of the
   disease or condition; or (iv) relieving the symptoms resulting from the disease or
   condition, (e.g., relieving pain, reducing inflammation, reducing loss of cartilege,
20 increasing bone density) without addressing the underlying disease or condition. As
   used herein, the terms "disease" and "condition" may be used interchangeably or may
   be different in that the particular malady or condition may not have a known causative
   agent (so that etiology has not yet been worked out) and it is therefore not yet
   recognized as a disease but only as an undesirable condition or syndrome, wherein a
25 more or less specific set of symptoms have been identified by clinicians. In certain
   embodiments, compositions and methods of the instant disclosure are useful for
   treating, managing or ameliorating, for example, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or
   both.
           As used herein, "statistical significance" refers to a p value of 0.050 or less as
30 calculated using the Students t-test and indicates that it is unlikely that a particular event
   or result being measured has arisen by chance.
                                                 17

            The chemical naming protocol and structure diagrams used herein are a
    modified form of the I.U.P.A.C. nomenclature system, using the ACD/Name Version
    9.07 software program or ChemDraw Ultra Version 11.0 software naming program
    (CambridgeSoft), wherein the compounds of this disclosure are named herein as
 5  derivatives of the central core structure, e.g., the imidazopyridine structure. For
    complex chemical names employed herein, a substituent group is named before the
    group to which it attaches. For example, cyclopropylethyl comprises an ethyl backbone
    with cyclopropyl substituent. Except as described below, all bonds are identified in the
    chemical structure diagrams herein, except for some carbon atoms, which are assumed
10  to be bonded to sufficient hydrogen atoms to complete the valency.
            As noted herein, in certain embodiments, the present disclosure provides a
    composition comprising prenylated flavonoids. Flavonoids include flavans, flavones,
    flavonols, flavanones, flavanonols, isoflavonoids, neoflavonoids, chalcones,
    arylbenzofuran, or the like.
15          In certain embodiments, a flavonoid compound of the present disclosure has
    structure (III), as follows:
                                   R2                     /Rio
                                    R3            O                  RB
                                                        R12|B
                                                        R5           R7
                                                  III
    wherein Ri-R 1 2 are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, chalcone,
    glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkoxy, CI- 12 alkthio,
20  CI-12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl, alkylcarbonyl,
    aralkylcarbonyl, or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or (IV); or one of Ri-R            12
   joins with another one of Ri-R 1 2 to form a ring, and the remaining R1 -R1 2 are each
    independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, flavonoid, chalcone, glycoside, halogen,
    sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, C 1 - 12 alkyl, C 1 - 12 alkoxy, C 1 - 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino,
25  cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl, alkylcarbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl or a
   bond to a compound of structure (III) or (IV), provided that all valencies are satisfied
                                                    18

   (e.g., when the optional double bond is present in ring C, then R 1 2 is absent and at least
   one of Rio or Ra1 is absent). In certain embodiments, at least one of Ri-R       12 is a prenyl
                                 OH
   group, such as                       or                 . In further embodiments, the optional
   double bond is present in ring C, Ra1 and R 12 are absent, and Rio is a prenyl group. In
 5 still further embodiments, at least one of Ri-R 9 is a prenyl group and Rio-R 12 are
   independently H or hydroxyl. In certain specific embodiments, the prenylated
   flavonoids include Albanin G, Kuwanon G, Morusin, or any combination thereof.
            In certain embodiments, a flavonoid compound of the present disclosure has
   structure (IV) as follows:
                                                          R6
                                               OR5                R7
                                          R,
                                       R2          R12    B|
                                          R2                      R8
                                       R3      O        R     9
                                          R4       R1
10                                             IV
   wherein Ri-R 1 2 are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, flavonoid,
   chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkoxy, Ci
   12 alkthio, CI-12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl,
   alkylcarbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl, or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or (IV); or
15 one of Ri-R   12 joins with another one of Ri-R  12 to form a ring, and the remaining Ri-R      12
   are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, flavonoid, chalcone, glycoside,
   halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkoxy, CI- 12 alkthio, CI- 12
   alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl, alkylcarbonyl,
   aralkylcarbonyl or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or (IV), provided that all
20 valencies are satisfied (e.g., when the optional double bond is present in ring C, then
   R 12 is absent and at least one of RIO or R,1 is absent). In certain embodiments, at least
                                                              OH
   one of Ri-R   12 is a prenyl group, such as                   or              . In further
   embodiments, the optional double bond is present in ring C, R,1 and R 1 2 are absent, and
   Rio is a prenyl group. In still further embodiments, at least one of Ri-R 9 is a prenyl
                                                  19

   group and Rio-R 12 are independently H or hydroxyl. In certain specific embodiments,
   the prenylated flavonoids include Albanin G, Kuwanon G, Morusin, morusinol,
   Sanggenon, isoxanthoumol, glabridin, cathayanon A, or any combination thereof.
            In some embodiments, a chalconoid compound of the present disclosure has
 5 structure (V) as follows:
                                        R1     0
                                 R3            R 5 Rio           R8
                                        R4                R9
                                                   v
   wherein Ri-Rio are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, flavonoid,
   chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkoxy, Ci
   12 alkthio, CI-12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl,
10 alkylcarbonyl, or aralkylcarbonyl. In certain embodiments, at least one of Ri-Rio is a
                                      OH
   prenyl group, such as                   or              . In further embodiments, the
   optional double bond is present in ring C, R 1i and R 12 are absent, and Rio is a prenyl
   group. In still further embodiments, at least one of Ri-R 9 is a prenyl group and Rio-R  12
   are independently H or hydroxyl. In certain specific embodiments, a chalconoid
15 compound includes xanthohumol.
            In certain embodiments, a stilbene compound of the present disclosure is an (E)
   stilbene (trans isomer) structure of formula I or (Z)-stilbene (cis isomer) structure of
   formula II, as follows:
                                     R7
                           R1 R6            R8                R1            R6
                          R2                           R2            --          R7
                                 RRR6                                    1   6
                      RR5            Rio               R3           Rs RIO       R8
                       R4                                     R4            R9
                               I20
                                                  20

   wherein Ri-Rio are each independently H, hydroxyl, glycoside, a prenyl group,
   flavonoid, chalcone, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkenyl, Ci
   12 alkoxy, C 1- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
   aralkyl, alkyl carbonyl, or aralkylcarbonyl. In certain embodiments, at least one of Ri
                                                 OH
 5 R12 is a prenyl group, such as                    or              . In further embodiments,
   R 1, R5 , R6 and Rio are H. In still further embodiments, R2 is a glucoside, or R 2 and R8
   are glycosides, and one or more of R 4 , R 9 , and Rio are hydroxyl. In yet further
   embodiments, R 1, R 5 , and R are H, and one or more of R 2-R 4 and R 7-Rio are
   independently hydroxyl, C1 3 alkoxy, or any combination thereof. In certain specific
10 embodiments, a stilbene includes oxyresveratrol, resveratrol, piceatannol, pinosylvin,
   3,4'-dihydroxystilbene, combretastatin A-1, pterostilbene, rhapontigenin, and a stilbene
   glycoside includes mulberroside A, rhaponticin, piceid, astringin, or any combination of
   these stilbenes or stilbene glycosides.
             It is understood that any embodiment of the compounds of structure (I) to (VI),
15 as set forth above, and any specific substituent set forth herein for the compounds of
   structure (I) to (VI), may be independently combined with other embodiments or
   substituents of any one of the compounds of structure (I) to (VI) to form embodiments
   of this disclosure not specifically set forth above. In addition, in the event that a list of
   substituents is listed for any particular R group in a particular embodiment or claim, it is
20 understood that each individual substituent may be deleted from the particular
   embodiment or claim and that the remaining list of substituents will be considered to be
   within the scope of this disclosure.
             For the purposes of administration, compounds and compositions of the present
   disclosure may be administered as a raw chemical or may be formulated as
25 pharmaceutical or nutraceutical compositions. In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical
   or nutraceutical compositions of the present disclosure comprise any one or more of the
   compounds having structure (I) to (VI) and a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically
   acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient. The compounds of structures (I) to (VI) are
   individually or in combination present in the composition in an amount that is effective
30 to treat a particular disease or condition of interest. Promoting, managing, or improving
                                                   21

   joint health or treating disease with compounds as set forth in any one of structures (I)
    to (VI) can be determined by one skilled in the art, for example, as described in the
    Examples herein.
             In certain embodiments, compounds and compositions (e.g., pharmaceutical,
 5  nutraceutical) of the present disclosure may be administered in an amount sufficient to
   promote bone health; improve bone health; maintain bone health; treat or manage bone
    disorders; support bone health; support a normal and comfortable range of motion
    and/or flexibility; improve range of motion and/or flexibility; reduce the action of
    harmful enzymes that break down bones; alter the action of enzymes that affect bone
10  absorption; improve movement with normal bone function; improve physical mobility;
    manage and/or maintain physical mobility; alleviate pain and/or stiffness due to bone
    loss; improve physical function; promote or enhance flexibility and comfortable
    movement; promote healthy bone function and comfort; relieve bone discomfort;
    relieve bone discomfort caused by exercise, work, overexertion or any combination
15  thereof; promote healthy bones by protecting cartilage integrity; maintain joint
    cartilage; support joint cartilage; treat, prevent, or manage cartilage degradation;
    minimize cartilage degradation; promote joint health or comfort by maintaining
    synovial fluid for joint lubrication; support joint stability and joint flexibility; revitalize
   joints and promote mobility; promote flexible joints and strong cartilage; maintain
20  steady blood flow to joints to support enhanced flexibility and/or strength; promote
   joint comfort and a wide range of motion after exercise, work, overexertion, or any
    combination thereof; or any other associated indication described herein, and generally
    with acceptable toxicity to a patient.
             In certain other embodiments, compounds and compositions (e.g.,
25 pharmaceutical, nutraceutical) of the present disclosure may be administered in an
    amount sufficient to prevent or treat bone disorders, cartilage disorders, or both. Those
    osteochondrodyspiasia includes osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, osteonecrosis, osteophyte,
   bone fracture, metabolic bone disorders, osteochondritis diseases, osteochondroma,
    osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa cystica, ostteitis pubis, condensing osteitis,
30  osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia (rickets), osteomyelitis, osteopenia, or any other
                                                   22

   bone and cartilage associated indication, and generally with acceptable toxicity to a
   patient.
            Administration of the compounds of this disclosure, or their pharmaceutically or
   nutraceutically acceptable salts, in pure form or in an appropriate pharmaceutical or
 5 nutraceutical composition, can be carried out via any of the accepted modes of
   administration of agents for serving similar utilities. The pharmaceutical or
   nutraceutical compositions of this disclosure can be prepared by combining a
   compound of this disclosure with an appropriate pharmaceutically or nutraceutically
   acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient, and may be formulated into preparations in solid,
10 semi-solid, liquid or gaseous forms, such as tablets, capsules, powders, granules,
   ointments, solutions, suppositories, injections, inhalants, gels, microspheres, and
   aerosols. Typical routes of administering such pharmaceutical or nutraceutical
   compositions include oral, topical, transdermal, inhalation, parenteral, sublingual,
   buccal, rectal, vaginal, or intranasal. The term parenteral as used herein includes
15 subcutaneous injections, intravenous, intramuscular, intrastemal injection or infusion
   techniques. Pharmaceutical or nutraceutical compositions of this disclosure are
   formulated so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable
   upon administration of the composition to a patient. In certain embodiments,
   compositions of the present disclosure are administered to a subject or patient in the
20 form of one or more dosage units, where, for example, a tablet may be a single dosage
   unit, and a container of a compound of this disclosure in aerosol form may hold a
   plurality of dosage units. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known, or
   will be apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example, see Remington: The Science
   and PracticeofPharmacy, 20th Edition (Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science,
25 2000). The composition to be administered will, in any event, contain a therapeutically
   effective amount of a compound of this disclosure, or a pharmaceutically or
   nutraceutically acceptable salt thereof, for treatment of a disease or condition of interest
   in accordance with the teachings of this disclosure.
            A pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition of this disclosure may be in the
30 form of a solid or liquid. In one aspect, the carrier(s) are particulate, so that the
   compositions are, for example, in tablet or powder form. The carrier(s) may be liquid,
                                                  23

   with the compositions being, for example, oral syrup, injectable liquid or an aerosol,
   which is useful in, for example, inhalatory administration.
            When intended for oral administration, the pharmaceutical or nutraceutical
   composition is in either solid or liquid form, where semi-solid, semi-liquid, suspension
 5 and gel forms are included within the forms considered herein as either solid or liquid.
            As a solid composition for oral administration, the pharmaceutical or
   nutraceutical composition may be formulated into a powder, granule, compressed
   tablet, pill, capsule, chewing gum, wafer, bar, or like form. Such a solid composition
   will typically contain one or more inert diluents or edible carriers. In addition, one or
10 more of the following may be present: binders such as carboxymethylcellulose, ethyl
   cellulose, cyclodextrin, microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; excipients
   such as starch, lactose or dextrins, disintegrating agents such as alginic acid, sodium
   alginate, Primogel, corn starch and the like; lubricants such as magnesium stearate or
   Sterotex®; glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide; sweetening agents such as sucrose
15 or saccharin; a flavoring agent such as peppermint, methyl salicylate or orange
   flavoring; and a coloring agent.
            When the pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition is in the form of a
   capsule, for example, a gelatin capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials of the
   above type, a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil.
20          The pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition may be in the form of a liquid,
   for example, an elixir, syrup, gel, solution, emulsion or suspension. The liquid may be
   for oral administration or for delivery by injection, as two examples. When intended for
   oral administration, a useful composition contains, in addition to the present
   compounds, one or more of a sweetening agent, preservatives, dye/colorant and flavor
25 enhancer. In a composition intended to be administered by injection, one or more of a
   surfactant, preservative, wetting agent, dispersing agent, suspending agent, buffer,
   stabilizer and isotonic agent may be included.
            The liquid pharmaceutical or nutraceutical compositions of this disclosure,
   whether they be solutions, suspensions or other like form, may include one or more of
30 the following adjuvants: sterile diluents such as water for injection, saline solution,
   such as physiological saline, Ringer's solution, isotonic sodium chloride, fixed oils such
                                                 24

   as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the solvent or suspending
   medium, polyethylene glycols, glycerin, propylene glycol or other solvents;
   antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben; antioxidants such as
   ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic
 5 acid; buffers such as carbonate, citrates, acetate, lactate, gluconate, or phosphates and
   agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. The
   parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules, disposable syringes or multiple
   dose vials made of glass or plastic. Physiological saline is a generally useful adjuvant.
   An injectable pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition is sterile.
10         A liquid pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition of this disclosure intended
   for either parenteral or oral administration should contain an amount of a compound of
   this disclosure such that a suitable dosage will be obtained.
           The pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition of this disclosure may be
   intended for topical administration, in which case the carrier may suitably comprise a
15 solution, emulsion, cream, lotion, ointment, or gel base. The base, for example, may
   comprise one or more of the following: petrolatum, lanolin, polyethylene glycols, bee
   wax, mineral oil, diluents such as water and alcohol, and emulsifiers and stabilizers.
   Thickening agents may be present in a pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition for
   topical administration. If intended for transdermal administration, the composition may
20 include a transdermal patch or iontophoresis device.
           The pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition of this disclosure may be
   intended for rectal administration, in the form, for example, of a suppository, which will
   melt in the rectum and release the drug. The composition for rectal administration may
   contain an oleaginous base as a suitable nonirritating excipient. Such bases include
25 lanolin, cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol.
           The pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition of this disclosure may include
   various materials, which modify the physical form of a solid or liquid dosage unit. For
   example, the composition may include materials that form a coating shell around the
   active ingredients. The materials that form the coating shell are typically inert, and may
30 be selected from, for example, sugar, shellac, and other enteric coating agents.
   Alternatively, the active ingredients may be encased in a gelatin capsule.
                                                25

            The pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition of this disclosure in solid or
   liquid form may include an agent that binds to the compound of this disclosure and
   thereby assists in the delivery of the compound. Suitable agents that may act in this
   capacity include a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody, a protein or a liposome.
 5          The pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition of this disclosure in solid or
   liquid form may include reducing the size of a particle to, for example, improve
   bioavailability. The size of a powder, granule, particle, microsphere, or the like in a
   composition, with or without an excipient, can be macro (e.g., visible to the eye or at
   least 100 pm in size), micro (e.g., may range from about 100 pm to about 100 nm in
10 size), nano (e.g., may no more than 100 nm in size), and any size in between or any
   combination thereof to improve size and bulk density.
            The pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition of this disclosure may consist
   of dosage units that can be administered as an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to
   denote a variety of systems ranging from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting
15 of pressurized packages. Delivery may be by a liquefied or compressed gas or by a
   suitable pump system that dispenses the active ingredients. Aerosols of compounds of
   this disclosure may be delivered in single phase, bi-phasic, or tri-phasic systems in
   order to deliver the active ingredient(s). Delivery of the aerosol includes the necessary
   container, activators, valves, subcontainers, and the like, which together may form a kit.
20 One skilled in the art, without undue experimentation, may determine the most
   appropriate aerosol(s).
            The pharmaceutical or nutraceutical compositions of this disclosure may be
   prepared by methodology well known in the pharmaceutical or nutraceutical art. For
   example, a pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition intended to be administered by
25 injection can be prepared by combining a compound of this disclosure with sterile,
   distilled water so as to form a solution. A surfactant may be added to facilitate the
   formation of a homogeneous solution or suspension. Surfactants are compounds that
   non-covalently interact with the compound of this disclosure so as to facilitate
   dissolution or homogeneous suspension of the compound in the aqueous delivery
30 system.
                                                26

           The compounds of this disclosure, or their pharmaceutically or nutraceutically
   acceptable salts, are administered in a therapeutically effective amount, which will vary
   depending upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound
   employed; the metabolic stability and length of action of the compound; the age, body
 5 weight, general health, sex, and diet of the patient; the mode and time of administration;
   the rate of excretion; the drug combination; the severity of the particular disorder or
   condition; and the subject undergoing therapy.
           Compounds of this disclosure, or pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable
   derivatives thereof, may also be administered simultaneously with, prior to, or after
10 administration of one or more other therapeutic agents. Such combination therapy
   includes administration of a single pharmaceutical or nutraceutical dosage formulation
   which contains a compound of this disclosure and one or more additional active agents,
   as well as administration of the compound of this disclosure and each active agent in its
   own separate pharmaceutical or nutraceutical dosage formulation. For example, a
15 compound of this disclosure and another active agent can be administered to the patient
   together in a single oral dosage composition, such as a tablet or capsule, or each agent
   can be administered in separate oral dosage formulations. Where separate dosage
   formulations are used, the compounds of this disclosure and one or more additional
   active agents can be administered at essentially the same time, i.e., concurrently, or at
20 separate staggered times, i.e., sequentially; combination therapy is understood to
   include all these regimens.
           It is understood that in the present description, combinations of substituents or
   variables of the depicted formulae are permissible only if such contributions result in
   stable compounds.
25         It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in the process described
   herein the functional groups of intermediate compounds may need to be protected by
   suitable protecting groups. Such functional groups include hydroxy, amino, mercapto
   and carboxylic acid. Suitable protecting groups for hydroxy include trialkylsilyl or
   diarylalkylsilyl (for example, t-butyldimethylsilyl, t-butyldiphenylsilyl or
30 trimethylsilyl), tetrahydropyranyl, benzyl, and the like. Suitable protecting groups for
   amino, amidino and guanidino include t-butoxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, and the
                                                 27

   like. Suitable protecting groups for mercapto include -C(O)-R" (where R" is alkyl, aryl
   or arylalkyl), p-methoxybenzyl, trityl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for
   carboxylic acid include alkyl, aryl or arylalkyl esters. Protecting groups may be added
   or removed in accordance with standard techniques, which are known to one skilled in
 5 the art and as described herein. The use of protecting groups is described in detail in
   Green, T.W. and P.G.M. Wutz, Protective Groups in OrganicSynthesis (1999), 3'd Ed.,
   Wiley. As one of skill in the art would appreciate, a protecting group may also be a
   polymer resin such as a Wang resin, Rink resin or a 2-chlorotrityl-chloride resin.
            It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art, although such protected
10 derivatives of compounds of this disclosure may not possess pharmacological activity
   as such, they may be administered to a mammal and thereafter metabolized in the body
   to form compounds of this disclosure which are pharmacologically active. Such
   derivatives may therefore be described as "prodrugs". All prodrugs of compounds of
   this disclosure are included within the scope of this disclosure.
15          Furthermore, all compounds of this disclosure which exist in free base or acid
   form can be converted to their pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable salts by
   treatment with the appropriate inorganic or organic base or acid by methods known to
   one skilled in the art. Salts of the compounds of this disclosure can be converted to their
   free base or acid form by standard techniques.
20          In some embodiments, compounds of the present disclosure can be isolated from
   plant sources, for example, from those plants included in the Examples and elsewhere
   throughout the present application. Suitable plant parts for isolation of the compounds
   include leaves, bark, trunk, trunk bark, stems, stem bark, twigs, tubers, root, root bark,
   bark surface (such as periderm or polyderm, which may include phellem, phellogen,
25 phelloderm, or any combination thereof), young shoots, rhizomes, seed, fruit,
   androecium, gynoecium, calyx, stamen, petal, sepal, carpel (pistil), flower, or any
   combination thereof. In some related embodiments, the compounds are isolated from
   plant sources and synthetically modified to contain any of the recited substituents. In
   this regard, synthetic modification of the compound isolated from plants can be
30 accomplished using any number of techniques that are known in the art and are well
   within the knowledge of one of ordinary skill in the art.
                                                 28

           Morus alba L (Moraceae), the mulberry or white berry plant, is native to
   northern China, and has been cultivated and naturalized elsewhere, from India to the
   Middle East to Southern Europe, and recently to the North American area. Morus root
   bark is used in traditional medicine known as Sang bai pi or Cortex Mori
 5 (Pharmacopoeia of the People's Republic of China, 2005). Morus herb is also known
   as Pong-na-moo in Korean and Sohakuhi in Japan. In contemporary pharmacological
   research, Morus alba root-bark has been reported to have antibacterial, anti-viral,
   antioxidant, hypoglycemic, hypolipidemic, neuroprotective, antiulcer, analgesic and
   anti-inflammatory activities. A variety of bioactive compounds from Morus alba root
10 bark have in vivo and in vitro anti-inflammatory activity.
           As noted herein, compounds of a Diels-Alder adduct of a chalcone and a
   prenylphenyl moiety, prenylated flavonoids, stilbenes, or any combination thereof may
   be obtained by chemical synthesis or from a plant extract, such as a Morus or Milicia
   extract. For example, Morus is a genus of flowering trees in the family Moraceae,
15 which comprises more than 30 species (known as mulberries) that grow wild or under
   cultivation in many countries. Exemplary Morus species include Morus alba L., Morus
   australisPoir,Morus celtidifolia Kunth, Morus insignis, Morus mesozygia Stapf Morus
   microphylla, Morus nigraL., Morus rubra L., Morus atropurpurea,Morus bombycis,
   Morus cathayana,Morus indica, Morus /hou, Morus japonica,Morus kagayamae,
20 Morus laevigata, Morus latifolia,Morus liboensis,Morus macroura,Morus mongolica,
   Morus multicaulis, Morus notabilis,Morus rotundiloba,Morus serrate,Morus
   heterophyllus, Morus tillaefolia, Morus trilobata,Morus yunnanensis, and Morus
   wittiorum.
           In certain embodiments, a Morus extract is from Morus alba, or a Morus extract
25 is a mixture of extracts from one, two, three, four, or five different Morus species. A
   mixture of extracts may include extracts from two or more Morus species or other
   sources listed in Table A. For example, a composition comprising a Diels-Alder adduct
   of a chalcone and a prenylphenyl moiety, a prenylated flavonoid, a stilbene, or any
   combination thereof may be made up of a Morus extract (e.g., Morus alba) and a
30 Milicia extract (e.g., Milicia excelsa). In certain embodiments, a Morus extract
   enriched for prenylated flavonoids and stilbenes is from Morus alba (a) root bark, (b)
                                                29

  root bark and leaves, (c) rootbark and twigs, (d) root bark, leaves and twigs, or (e) root
  bark, root wood, fine roots, stem bark, branch, branch bark, branch wood, and twigs.
           In some specific embodiments, compounds of a Diels-Alder adduct of a
  chalcone and a prenylphenyl moiety may be any one or more of the compounds
5 provided in Table A.
                Table A           List of Exemplary Diels-Alder Adduct Compounds
                     Structure                        Name            Species       secular   M.W.
          OH        OH                            Albafuran C     Morus alba  C 3 4 H2 8 0 9 580.590
  HO                      OH
                       0
                                          OH
             HO             0
                                          OH
         01i                                      Albafuran C; 2- Morus       C 3 4 H2 8 0 9 580.590
                                                  Epimer          australis
                                i
  110             0
                      0       011
          110
                              OH                  Albanin F       Morus alba, C 4 ,H 3 0 1 1 692.718
        HO
                                                                  also from
                                                                  Morus
                         HO                                       australis,
                  HO                                              Morus
                                                                  bombycis,
                                O 0OH                             and Morus
                                                                  lhou
               HO               OH
                                                   30

                 Structure            Name           Species      secular  M.W.
                        OH        Albanin F      Morus sp.   C4 0H3 sO1   710.733
     HO
                                  (Moracenin D);
                                  12,13-Dihydro,
            HO                    13-hydroxy
          HO
HO       O0    /        O\
                        OH
        HO               OH
                                  Albanin G      Morus alba; C4 H4O41 1   760.836
                     OH   0       (Kuwanon H.    also isol.
        OH                        Moracenin A.)  from Morus
                                                 australis,
                                                 Morus
            HO            0                      bombycis,
   HO                                            and Morus
                            HO OH                lhou
     HO           OH
                                  Albanin G: 2'- Morus       C4 5 H44 O
                                                                      0   744.837
                    OH   0        Deoxy          mongolica
        OH
                                  (Mongolicin D)
   HO       0            0 O0
          OHO                  OH
    HO
                                   31

                Structure             Name        Species        secular   M.W.
                      OH         Albanol A      Morus lhou C 3 4 H2 6 0 8 562.575
                                 (Mulberrofuran
                                 G.)
                0
HO          0
             HO            OH
          0
          OH
                       Oil       Albanol A; 3"- Morus lhou C 3 9 H3 4 0 8 630.693
                                 (3-Methyl-2
                                 butenyl),
                                 Mulberrofuran
                o                F
   I10       Oi
                 01
                IT
          OOI
                              OH Albanol B      Morus alba C 3 4 H2 2 0 8 558.543
       HO
              O
           O
            HO           OH
     OH
                                  32

                     Structure                        Name         Species         secular   M.W.
                                                  Artonin C     Artocarpus    C4 0H3 sO1 0  678.734
                                 OH                             heterophyllus
                                                                (jackfruit)
                        HO/
HO                            OH         O
                HO             1
                                   OH
                                             OH
        HO                                        Artonin D     Artocarpus    C4 0 H360 1   676.718
                         H                                      heterophyllus
                                                                (jackfruit)
           0OH                   0OH  HO      0OH
                HO
       01I                                        Artonin I     Morus         C4 0H36 0     692.718
                                                                                         11
                                                                heterophyllus
              01I
        I       I)I1
                   OI I)
   I()                        (I
                         I   011
                            IOI
                                                  Australisin B Morus         C 39 H 340 9  646.692
                                                                australis
                                  HO     OH
                               OH
       HO    0
HOH
                        OOH
                                     0      OH
                                                  33

                      Structure                      Name          Species        secular    M.W.
        Oi                                      Australisin C.; Morus        C34H2809
                                                2-Epimer        australis
110
                                 011
                 0
         110
                                  OiI
             /_ \
                      ----
               IIOl
         110
                  110 IIO,
              HO              OH             OH Brosimone B     Brosimopsis  C 4 0H3 80 10  678.734
                                                                oblongifolia
                                                                (preferred
                                                                genus name
                        O     O          OH                     Brosimum)
             HO
HO
      HO            OH
                                                Brosimone D     Brosimopsis  C 4,H40     11 760.836
                      HO                                        oblongifolia
                            HO,                                 (preferred
                                                                genus name
                HO                                              Brosimum)
                           HO
                     0
                 HO
                      0O      H
    HO        OH
    HO              OH                          Cathayanon A    Morus        C 4 ,H 3 60 12 708.717
                                                                cathayana
HO     7
        OHHO                                OH
                     HOO
                                       0
                                    OH
                         OH     0
                                                 34

                      Structure                     Name         Species       secular   M.W.
    HO               OH                        Cathayanon A;  Morus      C4 0H3 Oi2     708.717
                                               14-Epimer      cathayana
HO
        OH      H                        OH
                                OH
                         OH   C
110             O ICathayanon                              E  Morus      C4 0H3 Oi2     708.717
                                                              cathayana
                          0     01
       1 1 01      10
                                         -0 11
            OiI
                                     OH        Chalcomoracin  Morus alba C 3 9 H3 6 0 9 648.708
                                  -_                          and Morus
                                                              mongolica
             HO
                      OH
     HOO
                          OH
        OH
                   OH
                HO                             Chalcomoracin; Sorocea    C 3 9 H3 60 9  648.708
                                      OH       3",5"-Diepimer muriculata
HO
          -HO
HO      \     /   OH
      HO
                                                35

                  Structure                    Name         Species       secular    M.W.
                                  OH      Chalcomoracin; Morus      C 39 H3 6 0 9   648.708
                              -           3"-Epimer      mongolica
                        0\      /
        HO
                OH
HO
                     OH
     OH
              OH
                                          Dorstenone     Dorstenia  C 4 0 H38 0 8   646.735
                                                         barteri
110
                   IIO
    OH                                    Guangsangon C  Morus      C 3 ,H 3 00 10  610.616
                                                         macroura
            HO
            O
              OH
               \,    /(O   O H    O
     HO              0H              OH
    Oil                                   Guangsangon D  Morus      C 3 ,H 3 00  1o 610.616
                       Oil                               macroura
                   110
         01
                            0         OIl
                        OiI
                                           36

           Structure                    Name         Species         lecular  M.W.
OH                                Guangsangon     Morus        C35 H3 O1 1   626.615
                OH                D; 2'-Deoxy,    macroura
                                  4',6'-dihydroxy
     0       HO
            OH
          O OH
                     0         OH
  HO
OH                                Guangsangon     Morus        C35 H3 O10    610.616
               OH                 D; 3-Deoxy, 4'- macroura and
                                  hydroxy         Morus
                                                  wittiorum
           OH
                   O        OH
 HO            OH
Oil                               Guangsangon     Morus        C 3,H 3o 10   610.616
               Oil                D; 2-Epimer, 3- macroura
                                  deoxy, 4'
                                  hydroxy
     0I
          001I
 110            Oil
OH                                Guangsangon E   Morus        C 3 9 H3 60 9 648.708
                                                  macroura
       0O
                      OH
                           OH
 HO             0        _
                           OH
                                   37

             Structure                       Name           Species      secular  M.W.
    OH                                Guangsangon         Morus     C3 9 H3 sO10 666.723
                            OH        E; 3-Epimer,        macroura
                                      2""1,3""-..dihydro,
                                      3 ""-.hydroxy
        O
                       O0H
                                OH
     HO           O
                                OH
                                      Guangsangon F       Morus     C4 0H360 10  676.718
             HH                                           macroura
HO
                        OH
              OH   HO                                     mcor
                      OH
                                      Guangsangon G       Morus     C 3,H 28 01  608.600
                H                                         macroura
HOO
                        OH     OH
                                   OH
                          HC
                             OH
        0                             Guangsangon         Morus     C3,H28011    624.600
             OH                       G; 1"-Epimer,       macroura
                                      2'-hydroxy
HO                                    3
          HO       0OH      OH
                    HO           O
                         /H
     N~
                         OH
                                       38

             Structure                        Name        Species      secular    M.W.
        O                                Guangsangon   Morus      C35 H2 80 1 1  624.600
             OH                          G; 2'-Hydroxy macroura
HO      0
          HO       0OH     OH
                     HO          O
                        /H
     N~
                          OH
    OH  0                                Guangsangon   Morus      C35 H280    11 625.600
              H                          G; 5-Hydroxy  wittiorum
HOO
                        ()OH
                                   OH
                 HO           OH
         O                               Guangsangon H Morus      C4 0 H3sO10    678.734
             OiI                                       macroura
                      O     OiI
                            IIO
                          OiI
                                         Guangsangon J Morus       C3 9 H3 6 0g  648.708
                                                       macroura
                           HO
HO
                                      OH
        \               HO
                   O
HO
                                 OH
                                         39

               Structure                 Name        Species       secular   M.W.
     Oil                            Guangsangon L Morus alba C 2 7 H2 4 0 8 476.482
           OHO
                         OiI
            00
       I0I         OII
                                    lsobavachrome Dorstenia  C 4 0 H380 8   646.735
                                    ne dimer      zenkeri
   HHO
                   OH   0
                    %~OH
                              OH    Kuwanol A     Morus      C 3 4 H2 8 0 8 564.590
                                                  bombycis
                          OH
HO
        HO
             OH
HO                           OH     Kuwanol B     Morus      C 3 4 H2 60 8  562.575
                                                  bombycis
        HO                       OH
       HOO
                                     40

                Structure                       Name           Species       secular   M.W.
                                          Kuwanol E        Morus alba  C 3 9 H3 8 0 9 650.724
HO                                                         (white
                                                           mulberry)
                    OH
    OH               0
                                   ~OH
                OH           HO
                               110        Kuwanol E;       Sorocea     C 39 H40 O1 0  668.739
                                          2'",3"'-Dihydro, ilicifolia
110                                       3'"-hydroxy
         010           Oi
            Oi~                        00
                       0Oil
            OH                            Kuwanon J        Morus alba  C4 0H3s     10 678.734
 HO                                                        and from
                                                           Morus
                                                           bombycus
      OH          OH                                       and Morus
                                                           nigra
                                          4
                 OH
     HO
             0         OH
                            OH
                                           41

                 Structure        Name          Species        secular   M.W.
                         OH   Kuwanon J;      Morus alba C 4 0H38 0 9   662.735
                              16"-Deoxy       (white
                                              mulberry)
      O              OH
   HO
               OH
           0
                OH
HO
          OH
                           OH Kuwanon J; 2-   Morus alba C 4 0 H3 8 0 9 662.735
                              Deoxy           (white
                                              mulberry)
        0'
        O
   HO         N
                OH
             0
    OH            OH
HO
            OH
            OH                Kuwanon J       Morus alba C 4 0H 38 0 9  662.735
          HO                  ,A21",22"-      (white
                              Isomer, 2-deoxy mulberry)
    O4H           OH
             O
                OH
   HO
        O
                           OH
                               42

                  Structure            Name        Species      secular     M.W.
                            OH   Kuwanon J;     Morus alba C 4 0H 3 8 0 8  646.735
                                 2,16"-Dideoxy  (white
                                                mulberry)
       HO
                 OH
              0
                  OH
HO
              OH
                             OH  Kuwanon J;     Morus      C 40H 400o1 0   680.750
                                 2',3'-Dihydro  mongolica
               O        OH
           HO
                    OH
                       OH
HO
              HO
    HO
               OH                Kuwanon J; 1"- Morus alba C 4 0H 3 80O 10 678.734
 HO                                    Epimer   and Morus
                                                bombycus
                   OH
        HO
                         OH
                              OH
                                  43

               Structure       Name          Species         secular      M.W.
           OH             Kuwanon J;      Artocarpus    C 4 0H 3 8 0 9   662.735
                          A21 ".22"-      heterophyllus
                          Isomer, 2-deoxy (jackfruit)
                          (Artonin X.)
      O         O
           OH OH       O    uao             osab         3   H0     1     2.1
         0
               OH
     HO         OH    O H Kuwanon L       Morus alba    C3,H   3  0O 1 1 626.615
   HO                                     (white
                                          mulberry)
              HO
         0
     HO
      HO    OH
       -       OH
      O
                O
HO          OH
               O4H   OH   Kuwanon L;      Morus alba    C4H3O11          692.718
   HO                     2,3-Didehydro,  (white
                          3-(3-methyl-2-  mulberry)
                          butenyl)
             HO
         O
    HO
              OH
      O
               O
HO         OH
                           44

                   Structure           Name     Species      secular    M.W.
            HO                      Kuwanon N Morus lhou C4 H4O411     760.836
                          OH
       HO
                    O0
         HO                    How
                              Ouao                   hu  C0   38 1      9.3
        HO
                    OH
  HO            OH
          HO                        Kuwanon P Morus lhou C 4 H3 0 1 10 694.734
                           OH
              HO
      HO
       HO
                   OH
 HO            OH
    HO             OH               Kuwanon P Morus lhou C34H300g      582.606
HO
               OO
       OH     0
             HO/
                 ;    OH      qOH
                                 OH
                                    45

                 Structure                 Name        Species        secular     M.W.
    HO            OH                   Kuwanon P; 2- Morus      C 3 4 H3 00 8
                                       Deoxy         macroura
HO
       OH    0
            HO      /
                                    OH
                                 OH
                           OH          Kuwanon W     Morus lhou C 4 5 H 42 0 1 1 758.820
                    HO
                         HO
HO                0HO         OH
    O          OH
   HO       0
       HO         OHO OH               Kuwanon X     Morus lhou C34H300g         582.606
                           OH
HO          O     HO
            OH
   HO
         OH
                                       46

                    Structure                        Name       Species       secular   M.W.
         110            OII                     Kuwanon X;   Morus alba C 3 4 H3 0 0 9 582.606
                                                3"- Epimer   (white
                                                             mulberry)
       1011
     110            110
               011
 110
                             IIOf
               OII0
O                                                            (white
                                      OH                     mulberry)
HO0               O          Oi                              ( w it
                               OiOH
                          Oi                    Mongolicin C Morus      C 3 4 H2 6 0 9 578.574
                                       110Oilmongolica
      110I
                    )
           011                                  Moracenin C  Morus sp.  C4 HO          760.836
                                                                                     1
                                    011
                                         011
  IK                      0o                    Moaei0         ou    p    4H41          6.3
                                                 47

            Structure                           Name          Species        secular   M.W.
                       OIIMulberrofuran                     Morus
II                                          C               bombycis
                                                            (Moraceae)
                I110   0
                    I110
                                        01I
                                            Mulberrofuran   Morus alba C 3 9 H3 6 0 8 632.709
                                            E               (white
                 OH
                                            OH              mulberry)
                                                            (Moraceae)
          O              O
                       OH
HO                        HC            OH
      HO                                    Mulberrofuran I Morus      C34H240s
                                                            bombycis                  560.559
    0
                     OH
HO       O    OH
       O
       OH
                         OH                 Mulberrofuran J Morus lhou C 3 4 H2 8 0 9 580.590
HO4
                                            OH
                   HO     O
                      HO
                                  OH
                                             48

            Structure                             Name      Species     secular  M.W.
                       OIIMulberrofuran                   Morus
I10                                         J, 2-Epimer   bombycis
                I110    0
                    I110
                                          0
                     OH                     Mulberrofuran Morus alba            646.692
HO     0
              HO     0~'    HO
                   00
                  HO                   OH
                               0
                  OH                        Mulberrofuran Morus alba C34H2209   574.542
    OH                                      P             (white
                         I                                mulberry)
           O
HO      O
         HO              OH
         O4
                                             49

                  Structure            Name        Species        secular   M.W.
          OH                       Mulberrofuran Morus alba C3 4 H24 0 1 0 592.558
                                   Q             (white
                                                 mulberry)
    0
             0
 O                          OH
HO          O
                HO
         0
          OH
         OH                        Mulberrofuran Morus alba C 3 4 H2 4 0 9 576.558
                                   S             (white
                                                 mulberry)
      OH
            HO          OH
HO          O
   HO
               HO                  Mulberrofuran Morus alba C44H440      9 716.826
                             OH    T             (white
                                                 mulberry)
  HO                            OH
              OH     HO
     OH
                                    50

                 Structure             Name          Species       secular    M.W.
        HO                         Mulberrofuran Morus       C 3 9 H3 60 9   648.708
                    OH             U             insignia
HO
   HO     0
            HO
                       OH
               0
      HO
                                   Multicaulisin Morus       C4 0H36 0    11 692.718
                                                 multicaulis
       OH               OH 0
                                OH
           OH
HO               HO        0
HO                                 Sanggenol G   Morus       C 3 0H 3 4 0 7  694.734
                                                 cathayana
       OH
               O   HO
                      O
                HO              OH
                    HO       OH
                                    51

                Structure              Name        Species      lecular  M.W.
                                  Sanggenol J   Morus      C4 H4O412    776.835
                                                cathayana
                         OH
   HO            O
                 OH               Sanggenol M   Morus      C44H44    11 748.825
                        OHH
           Smongolica
   H0HO
                          OH
                                  Sanggenon B   Morus      C3 3 H3 oOg  570.595
        HO            O     0
        HO HOHangen
                 OH                          B  Mos
                                  OOH
            Ho,,::;               Sanggenon B;  Morus sp   CeH34012     706.701
                                  7-0-(2,4
                                  Dihydroxybenz
                   OH             oy)
                                  (Sanggenon S)
                          OH  /
HO          O   OH 0OH          1
                                   52

                   Structure                       Name          Species      secular  M.W.
                                               Sanggenon D    Morus      C4 0H3 Oi 2  708.717
                         Oil     O                            cathayana
         110 Ol 1100                1Oi
   110           0
                                               Sanggenon E    Morus Spp. C4 H4O41 2   776.835
                                             1
                HO0
                                      O
                                   OH
        OH               OH     0
                             OH
       HO
                     OH
HO                                             Sanggenon G    Morus alba C4 0 H3s0 11 694.734
               O              OH
        OH
              O    HO
                       O
       NHO                              OH
                    HO             OH
                                      OH       Sanggenon G;   Morus sp.  C4 0H4 Oi 2  712.749
HO                                             14,15-Dihydro,
                                               15-hydroxy
                                OH
                      HO
                  HO                      OH
                      HO             OH
                                                53

                    Structure                  Name       Species      secular   M.W.
                   OH                     Sanggenon Q  Morus      C4 0H3 Oi2    708.717
                                                       mongolica
                   OH
    0           0
        O  ~       OH
              OH
                            OH
         HO
                        OH
             HO
                                          Sanggenon D; Morus      C4 0H3 Oi2    708.717
                                          3'-Epimer    cathayana
          110 Ol 11001Oi
   1100
                                          Sanggenon D; Morus      C40 H36 0i 2  708.717
                                          2,3,3'-      cathayana
                               OI I       Triepimer
                    Oil
    HO                                    Sorocein B   Sorocea    C 4 0H 34 0 9 658.703
                                                       bonplandii
                 0   /      OH         CH
HO0
                            0       OH
                                           54

                Structure                      Name         Species      secular  M.W.
               OH                         Sorocein H     Sorocea    C4 H4O412    776.835
HO                                                       bonplandii
                                                         (Moraceae)
                                                         and Morus
                     OH                                  spp.
   HO              OOH      OH
           HO              O   :b      OH
      OH 0                                Wittiorumin B  Morus      C4 0H360 1 2 708.717
               OH                                        wittiorum
HO       0
           HO        OOH      OH
                       /0\
      OH  0                               Wittiorumin B; Morus      C4 0H36 0 11 692.718
                OH                        1"-Epimer, 2'- wittiorum
                                          deoxy
HO
                      00OH      OH
                           OH       OH
                             OH
          0                               Wittiorumin E  Morus      C4 0 H3 0 1, 678.734
                                                         wittiorum
HO5
            HO         O OH      OH
                           OH        O
                             OH
                                           55

                    Structure                          Name          Species        lecular  M.W.
                                  OH              Wittiorumin F   Morus        C 39 H3 60 9 648.708
                                                                  wittiorum
                          Ott)
   HO          0O                              H
                                    HO
                                 O                Wittiorumin G   Morus        C4 0H3s   10 678.734
                                                                  wittiorum
                                         OH
                       OH
                HO HO0O                          H
           HO           OH
                             OH                   Yunanensin A    Morus        C 39 H28 0 8 624.645
   HO                                                             yunnanensis
           O              O    1O          OH
                    OH
           Compounds in Table A and Examples 3, 5, and 6 can be extracted, isolated or
   purified from the indicated plant species or certain plant parts (e.g., from the bark,
   trunk, trunk bark, stem bark, root, root bark, bark surface (such as periderm or
   polyderm, which may include phellem, phellogen, phelloderm, or any combination
 5 thereof), leaves, fruits, flowers, other plant parts, or any combination thereof) or can be
   prepared synthetically or semi-synthetically as described in more detail in PCT
   Application No. PCT/US2013/43188, which methods of synthesis are incorporated
   herein by reference. In certain embodiments, one or more compounds of Table A and
   Examples 3, 5, and 6 are enriched for or are the major active ingredients in an extract of
10 the indicated plant species, wherein the enriched extract is obtained from a whole plant
   or certain plant parts, such as leaves, bark, trunk, trunk bark, stems, stem bark, twigs,
                                                   56

   tubers, root, root bark, bark surface (such as periderm or polyderm, which may include
   phellem, phellogen, phelloderm, or any combination thereof), young shoots, rhizomes,
   seed, fruit, androecium, gynoecium, calyx, stamen, petal, sepal, carpel (pistil), flower,
   or any combination thereof.
 5         In further embodiments, major active ingredients in an extract of Morus
   comprise prenylated flavonoids and stilbenes (such as those provided in Table A and
   Examples 3, 5, and 6), wherein the extract is enriched for these active ingredients from
   root bark, leaves, twigs, or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments, a Morus
   extract is enriched for prenylated flavonoids and stilbenes, wherein the extract
10 comprises from about 1% to about 25% prenylated flavonoids and from about 1% to
   about 25% stilbenes, or wherein the extract comprises from about 2% to about 6%
   prenylated flavonoids and from about 2% to about 6% stilbenes, or wherein the extract
   comprises at least 3% prenylated flavonoids and at least 3% stilbenes (weight to
   weight).
15         In certain embodiments, provided herein are Morus extracts enriched for one or
   more prenylated flavonoids or chalconoids and one or more stilbenes, wherein the one
   or more prenylated flavonoids are compounds having a structure of Formula (III) or
   (IV):
                           R1 O5 R17
                R2                 /Ri           R1               O,0R5          R7
                        A | C          R9                         0, R12 R6B|
                                             R8                    R8
                         R3 O                              A      C
                             R4 R12| B/RO                                R9
                                 Rs        R   7                     R11
                              III                or              I
20 or a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, glycoside, prodrug or
   stereoisomer thereof, wherein Ri -R1 2 are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl
   group, flavonoid, chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl,
   CI-12 alkoxy, CI- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
   aralkyl, alkyl carbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or
25 (IV); or one of Ri-R 1 2 joins with another one of Ri-R 1 2 to form a ring, and the
                                                  57

   remaining Ri-R     12 are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, flavonoid,
   chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkoxy, Ci
   12 alkthio, CI-12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl,
   alkylcarbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or (IV),
 5 provided that all valencies are satisfied; the chalcanoid is a compound of structure (V):
                                     R2                              R7
                                          | 1
                                     R3            R 5 R 10          R8
                                            R4                 R9
                                                      V
   or a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, glycoside, prodrug or
   stereoisomer thereof, wherein Ri-RIO are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl
   group, flavonoid, chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 1 2 alkyl,
10 CI- 12 alkoxy, CI- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
   aralkyl, alkyl carbonyl, or aralkylcarbonyl, provided that all valencies are satisfied; and
   the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or (II):
                                         R7
                         R,     R6              R8                R1             R6   R
                R2                                          R2                       R7
                                         Rio
                 3             R5                           R3          R 5 R 10     R8
                         R4                                       R4             R9
                                              I                             II
            wherein Ri-Rio are each independently a H, hydroxyl, glycoside, prenyl,
15 flavonoid, chalcone, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkenyl, Ci
   12 alkoxy, C 1- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl, alkylcarbonyl, or
   aralkylcarbonyl.
            In further embodiments, the one or more prenylayted flavonoids are compounds
   having a structure of Formula (III), (IV) or (V), wherein the optional double bond is
20 present in ring C, R 1i and R 12 are absent, and Rio is a prenyl group. In still further
   embodiments, the one or more prenylayted flavonoids are compounds having a
                                                      58

   structure of Formula (III), (IV) or (V), wherein the at least one of Ri-R 9 is a prenyl
   group and Rio-R 12 are independently H or hydroxyl. In certain specific embodiments,
   the prenylated flavonoids include Albanin G, Kuwanon G, Morusin, morusinol,
   Sanggenon, isoxanthoumol, glabridin, cathayanon A, or any combination thereof. In
 5 certain embodiments, the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of
   Formula (I) or (II), wherein Ri-Rio are each independently a H, hydroxyl, glycoside, or
   C 1 .4 alkoxy. In further embodiments, the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a
   structure of Formula (I) or (II), wherein R 1, R5 , R6 and Rio are H. In still further
   embodiments, the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula
10 (I) or (II), wherein R 2 is a glucoside, or R 2 and R8 are glycosides, and one or more of
   R4 , R 9, and Rio are hydroxyl. In yet further embodiments, the one or more stilbenes are
   compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or (II), wherein R 1, R5 , and R6 are H, and
   one or more of R2 -R4 and R 7-Ri0 are independently hydroxyl, C1 3 alkoxy, or any
   combination thereof. In certain specific embodiments, a stilbene compound includes
15 oxyresveratrol, resveratrol, piceatannol, pinosylvin, 3,4'-dihydroxystilbene,
   combretastatin A-1, pterostilbene, rhapontigenin, and a stilbene glycoside includes
   mulberroside A, rhaponticin, piceid, astringin, or any combination of these stilbenes or
   stilbene glycosides.
             In some embodiments, the flavonoid is a compound of structure (III) and in
20 other embodiments the flavonoid is a compound of structure (IV). In some othe
   embodiments, at least one of Ri-R     12 , such as Rio is prenyl. In other embodiments,
   polyflavonoids are provided and at least one of Ri-R       12 in the compounds of structure
   (III) or (IV) is a bond to a compounds of structure of (III) or (IV) (i.e., the compound
   comprises more than one flavonoid of structure (III) and/or (IV)).
25           In some other embodiments of the compounds of structure (III) or (IV), Ri-R       12
   is H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group or cycloalkyl. For example, in some embodiments the
   cycloalkyl is substituted and/or comprises one or more carbon-carbon double bonds
   (i.e., is unsaturated). The optional substitutents are typically selected from aryl, such as
   phenyl, and aryl carbonyl. Accordingly, in some further embodiments, the flavonoid
30 has one of the following structures (Ila) or (IVa):
                                                    59

                                                                                       R-6
                             R1     O R1 1                             R,     0 R5         R7
                       R2                   R1                  R2               R1 2 B     R
                             A      C|        R    R                   Al     C IN     R   R8
                       R3              R 12         RR                        0     Rio
                                                                  3
                      0R                5          R7
                         -              Ma                 R4
                Ra'- I      10a\~~     R4 a'                               ___,!
                                   R 4aaa aor                   4
                                                                      R      Ia R4a
                                                                      R     Ra
   wherein R      is, at each occurrence, independently H, hydroxyl or a prenyl group.
             In certain embodiments of the compounds of structure (Ila) or (IVa), Ri-R 3 and
   R5 -R 12 are each independently selected from H, hydroxyl and a prenyl group. In certain
 5 embodiments, at least one one of Ri-R 3 , R4a or R 5-R1 2 is prenyl, for example in some
   embodiments, RIO is prenyl. In other embodiments of the compounds of structure (Ila)
   or (IVa), at least two of Ri-R 3 , R4 a or R5 -R1 2 is hydroxyl.
             In some more specific embodiments, the flavonoid has one of the following
   structures:
                              OH    O                                             OH   O
            HO     0 HO             O                           HO     O HO            O
                                                  OH                      HO                      OH
         HO    HOHO
                                                              HO
10            HO           OH                         or           HO           OH
             In other embodiments, one of Ri-R        12 joins with another one of Ri-R 1 2 to form a
   ring and the remaining Ri-R        12  are H, hydroxyl or a prenyl group. In certain of these
   embodiments, the ring is a heterocyclic ring, for example a cyclic ether ring.
   Accordingly, in certain embodiments the flavonoid has one of the following structures
15 (IlIb) or (IVb):
                                                      60

                           R1  O R11                        R1     O R,,
                                   II~b           or                  II~b
           In certain embodiments of the compounds of structure (IIb) or (I~b), R1, R2
   and R5 -R12 are each independently selected from H, hydroxyl and a prenyl group. In
   certain embodiments, at least one one of R 1, R 2 or R5 -R 12 is prenyl, for example in some
                         0                    0          0                      R
 5 embodiments, Rio is prenyl. In other embodiments of the compounds of structure (IlIb)
                                      o    ~     or                   B
   or (I~b), at least two of R1, R2 or R5 -R12 is hydroxyl. In certain embodiments, the
   flavonoid has the following structure:
                                           OH O        /
                                                   HO         OH
           In various other embodiments, Ri-Rio of the chalcanoid of structure (V) are each
10 independently selected from H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, and C- 12 alkoxy.
           Acacia is a genus of leguminous trees and shrubs. The genus Acacia includes
   more than 1000 species belonging to the family of Leguminosae and the subfamily of
   Mimosoideae. Acacias are distributed worldwide in tropical and subtropical areas of
   Central and South America, Africa, parts of Asia, as well as Australia, which has the
15 largest number of endemic species. Acacias occur primarily in dry and arid regions,
   where the forests are often   n the nature of open thomy shrubs. Acacias are very
   important economically, providing a source of tannins, gums, timber, fuel and fodder.
   Tannins, which are isolated primarily from bark, are used extensively for tanning hides
   and skins. Some Acacia barks are also used for flavoring local spirits. Some indigenous
20 species like A. sinuata also yield saponins, which are used in detergents, foaming agents
   and emulsifiers. The flowers of some Acacia species are fragrant and used to make
   perfume. The heartwood of many Acacias is used for making agricultural implements
                                                  61

   and also provides a source of firewood. Acacia gums find extensive use in medicine and
   confectionary and as sizing and finishing materials in the textile industry.
            Uncariagambir (Rubiaceae) is a climbing shrub with round branches, which is
   believed to strengthen teeth when chewed with piper bettle leaves. All parts of the plant
 5 have astringent properties. Leaves of the U. gambir plant contain free catechins as well
   as polymerized catechins - tannins - which are more abundant in younger leaves as
   compared to older leaves. U. gambir is listed in the Food Additive Database in EAFUS
   (Everything Added to Food in the United States), in the Korea Food Additives Code by
   KFDA, and in the Japan Food Additives Code by MHLW as a natural flavoring agent.
10 U. gambir is also listed in the Korea Pharmaceutical Codex (KP), Japan Pharmaceutical
   Codex (JP) and China Pharmaceutical Codex (CP). In South Korea, there are many
   over-the-counter (OTC) drugs that contain U. gambir extract, especially for dyspepsia,
   halitosis, vomiting and anorexia. In Japan, U. gambir is used for diarrhea, vomiting and
   gastritis. In the United States, U. gambir is used as a dietary supplement to support liver
15 function and fat metabolism.
            The biologically active flavans of this disclosure may be obtained by synthetic
   methods or extracted from one or more plants, such as Acacia, Uncaria, or both. In
   certain embodiments, an Acacia plant species is selected from A. angustifolia,A.
   ataxacantha,A. berlandieri,A. bonariensis,A. brevispica,A. catechu, A. chundra,A.
20 concinna, A.floribunda, A. greggii,A. interior,A. macilenta, A. mellifera, A. merrallii,
   A. occidentalis,A. peninsularis,A. pennata, A. pennatula,A. polyacantha,A.
   polyphylla, A. riparia,A. roemeriana,A. senegal,A. sinuata,A. tamarindifolia,A.
   tenuifolia, A. victoriae,A. visco, or any any combination thereof (for exemplary Acacia
   extracts and flavans, see U.S. Patent No. 8,124,134). In certain embodiments, an
25 Uncariaplant species is selected from U. acida, U. africana, U. attenuate, U. bernaysii,
   U. borneensis, U. callophylla, U. cordata, U. elliptica, Uncariagambir, U. guianensis,
   U. hirsute, U. homomalla, U. lanosa, U. longiflora, U. macrophylla, U. orientalis, U.
   rhynchophylla, U. scandens, U. sessilifructus, U. setiloba, U. sinensis, U. sterrophylla,
   U. tomentosa, U. wangii, or any any combination thereof (for exemplary Uncaria
30 extracts and flavans, see U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007/0264361).
                                                62

           In further embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises an Acacia
   catechu extract enriched for flavans containing catechin, epicatechin, or a combination
   thereof. In still further embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises an
   Uncariagambir extract enriched for flavans containing catechin, epicatechin, or a
 5 combination thereof. In yet further embodiments, an Acacia extract enriched for
   flavans is from Acacia catechu, or an Acacia extract enriched for flavans is a mixture of
   extracts from one, two, three, four, five or more different Acacia species, Uncaria
   species, or from other sources. In other embodiments, an Uncariaextract enriched for
   flavans is from Uncariagambir, or an Uncaria extract enriched for flavans is a mixture
10 of extracts from one, two, three, four, five or more different Uncariaspecies, Acacia
   species, other sources (e.g., different plant such as green tea, synthetic), or any
   combination thereof. For example, a composition of this disclosure comprises a
   mixture of an Acacia catechu extract enriched for flavans containing catechin,
   epicatechin, or both and an Uncariagambir extract enriched for flavans containing
15 catechin, epicatechin, or both.
           In certain embodiments, major active ingredients in an extract of Acacia
   comprise flavans containing catechin, epicatechin, or both, wherein the extract is
   enriched for these active ingredients from roots, bark, or a combination thereof. In
   certain embodiments, major active ingredients in an extract of Uncariacomprise
20 flavans containing catechin, epicatechin, or both, wherein the extract is enriched for
   these active ingredients from leaves.
           In certain embodiments, provided herein are Acacia or Uncaria extracts
   enriched for one or more flavans containing catechin, epicatechin, or both, wherein the
   flavans are compounds having a structure of Formula (VI):
                                                         R24
                                                                R25
                               R21             O       z
                                                     R23
                                        R22
25                                                VI
                                                 63

            wherein R21, R 2 2 , R 2 3 , R 2 4 and R 25 are independently selected from a
   H, -OH, -SH, -OCH 3 , -SCH 3, -OR, -SR, -NH 2 , -NRH, -NR2 , -NR3IX-, esters of
   substitution groups, independently selected from the group consisting of gallate,
   acetate, cinnamoyl and hydroxyl-cinnamoyl esters, trihydroxybenzoyl esters and
 5 caffeoyl esters; a carbon, oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur glycoside of a single or a
   combination of multiple sugars including aldopentose, methyl aldopentose, aldohexose,
   ketohexose; dimer, trimer or other polymerized flavans;
            wherein R is a C1.o alkyl group; and
           X is a pharmaceutically acceptable counter anion of hydroxyl, chloride, iodide,
10 sulfate, phosphate, acetate, fluoride, or carbonate.
            Curcuma longa L, with common name as turmeric, is a perennial plant of the
   ginger family, Zingiberaceae. The name of turmeric might come from Latin, terra
   merita (merited earth) or turmeryte, which is related to saffron. It is originally from
   tropical south Asia and cultivated extensively in India and Southeast Asia. Turmeric is
15 prepared from the ground rhizome and has been used in India for thousands of years.
   Besides its culinary usage, modem research has revealed that turmeric has antibacterial,
   antioxidant, chemopreventive, chemotherapeutic, antiproliferative, antiparasitic, anti
   antimalarial, antinociceptive, and anti-inflammatory properties.
            In certain embodiments, there are provided herein Curcuma extracts comprising
20 curcuminoids. In further embodiments, a Curcuma longa extract is enriched for
   curcuminoids, such as curcumin (diferuloylmethane), demethoxy-curcumin,
   bisdemethoxy-curcumin, casumunin A, cassumunin B, or any combination thereof. The
   biologically active curcuminoids and analogues therof of this disclosure may be
   obtained by synthetic methods (see Anand et al., Biochem. Pharmacol.76:1590, 2008)
25 or extracted from one or more plants, such as Curcuma plants, Zingiberplants, or both.
            Exemplary species of the Curcuma genus of the instant disclosure include C.
   aeruginosa,C. albicoma, C. albiflora, C. alismatifolia,C. amada, C. amarissima,C.
   americana,C. angustifolia, C. aromatica,C. attenuata,C. aurantiaca,C. australasica,
   C. bakeriana,C. bicolor, C. bhatii, C. brog, C. burttii, C. caesia, C. candida, C.
30 cannanorensis,C. caulina, C. careyana, C. ceratotheca, C. chuanezhu, C.
   chuanhuangjiang,C. chuanyujin, C. coccinea, C. cochinchinensis, C. codonantha, C.
                                                         64

   coerulea, C. colorata, C. comosa, C. cordata, C. cordifolia, C. coriacea, C. decipiens,
   C. domestica, C. ecalcarata,C. ecomata, C. elata, C. erubescens, C. euchroma, C.
   exigua, C.ferruginea, C.flaviflora, C. glans, C. glaucophylla, C. gracillima, C.
   grahamiana,C. grandiflora,C. haritha,C. harmandii, C. heyneana, C. inodora, C.
 5 karnatakensis, C. kuchoor, C. kudagensis, C. kiinstleri, C. kurzii, C. kwangsiensis, C.
   lanceolata, C. larsenii, C. latiflora, C. latifolia, C. leucorhiza, C. leucorrhiza, C.
   loerzingii, C. longa, C. longiflora, C. longispica, C. lutea, C. malabarica,C. mangga,
   C. meraukensis, C. montana, C. musacea, C. mutabilis, C. neilgherrensis,C.
   nilamburensis,C. ochrorhiza, C. officinalis, C. oligantha, C. ornata, C. pallida, C.
10 parviflora, C. parvula, C. peethapushpa, C. petiolata,C. phaeocaulis, C. picta - C.
   pierreana,C. plicata, C. porphyrotaenia,C. prakasha, C. pseudomontana, C.
   purpurascens,C. purpurea, C. raktakanta,C. ranadei,C. reclinata, C. rhabdota, C.
   rhomba, C. roscoeana, C. rotunda, C. rubescens, C. rubricaulis,C. rubrobracteata,C.
   sattayasaii,C. sessilis, C. sichuanensis, C. singularis,C. soloensis, C. sparganiifolia,
15 C. speciosa, C. spicata, C. stenochila, C. strobilifera,C. sulcata, C. sumatrana, C.
   sylvatica, C. sylvestris, C. thalakaveriensis,C. thorelii,C. trichosantha,C. vamana, C.
   vellanikkarensis,C. viridiflora,C. vitellina - C. wenchowensis, C. wenyujin, C.
   xanthorrhiza,C. yunnanensis, C. zedoaria, C. zedoaroides, C. zerumbet.
           In certain embodiments, a Curcuma extract enriched for curcuminoids is from
20 Curcuma longa, or a Curcuma extract enriched for curcuminoids is a mixture of
   extracts from one, two, three, four, five or more different Curcuma species or from
   other sources. For example, a composition comprising curcuminoids may be a a
   Curcuma extract (e.g., Curcuma longa) mixed with synthetic curcuminoids, or a
   mixture of a Curcuma extract (e.g., Curcuma longa) enriched for curcuminoids with a
25 Zingiber cassumunarextract enriched for curcuminoids, Curcumaphaeocaulis extract
   enriched for curcuminoids, Curcuma.xanthorrhiza extract enriched for curcuminoids,
   or any combination thereof. In other embodiments, a Curcuma extract enriched for one
   or more curcuminoids (e.g., curcumin, demethoxy-curcumin, bisdemethoxy-curcumin,
   casumunin A, cassumunin B, or any combination thereof) may be from root, rhizome,
30 or a combination thereof.
                                                  65

            A Morus extract enriched for prenylated flavonoids and stilbenes may be used
   as an anti-inflammatory by inhibiting, for example, both COX and LOX pathways,
   which can be utilized as is or in combination with at least one bioactive plant extract,
   such as an extract from Acacia, Uncaria, Curcuma or a combination thereof, and
 5 optionally contain a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable active, adjuvant,
   carrier, diluent, or excipient. In certain embodiments, any of the aforementioned
   compositions can be used to prevent bone loss, increase bone density, prevent, manage
   or treat osteoporosis in a mammal, such as a human, especially pre-menopausal,
   menopausal and post-menopausal women.
10          In certain embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises an Acacia
   extract containing or enriched for one or more flavans as described herein (or described
   in U.S. Patent No. 8,124,134), and a Morus extract containing or enriched for at least
   one Diels-Alder adduct of a chalcone and a prenylphenyl moiety, prenylated flavonoid,
   stilbene, or any combination thereof. In certain embodiments, a composition comprises
15 an Acacia extract containing or enriched for one or more flavans as described herein or
   in U.S. Patent No. 8,124,134 and a Morus extract containing or enriched for one or
   more compounds listed in Table A and Examples 3, 5, 6 and 68. In still further
   embodiments, a composition comprises an Acacia extract containing or enriched for
   catechin, epicatichin, or both, and a Morus extract containing or enriched for one or
20 more prenylated flavonoids, one or more stilbenes, or any combination thereof. In other
   embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one
   or more prenylated flavonoids and one or more stilbenes, and an Acacia extract
   enriched for flavans.
            In further embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises a mixture of
25 a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids and one or more
   stilbenes, and an Acacia extract enriched for one or more flavans,
            wherein the one or more prenylated flavonoids are compounds having a
   structure of Formula (III) or (IV):
                                                66

                            R10    R17                                5
                 R2                 /Ri                     R,
                                                            R     OR5R
                        R,4
                        A      C         R9       0                  R12  R6B|
                                               R8                  R8
                          R3   OAl                                C|               8
                             R4    R121 B/RO                              R
                                  R5s    R     R7                    R411
                               III                 or             IV
   or a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, glycoside, prodrug or
   stereoisomer thereof, wherein Ri-R 1 2 are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl
   group, flavonoid, chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl,
 5 CI-12 alkoxy, CI- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
   aralkyl, alkyl carbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or
   (IV); or one of Ri-R 1 2 joins with another one of Ri-R 1 2 to form a ring, and the
   remaining Ri-R    12 are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, flavonoid,
   chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkoxy, Ci
10 12 alkthio, CI-12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl,
   alkylcarbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or (IV),
   provided that all valencies are satisfied;
            the chalcanoid is a compound of structure (V):
                                            R1   0          R6
                                     R2                           R7
                                          I               I
                                     R3          R 5 R 10         R8
                                               R4           R9
                                                    V
15 or a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, glycoside, prodrug or
   stereoisomer thereof, wherein Ri-RIO are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl
   group, flavonoid, chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl,
   CI- 12 alkoxy, CI- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
   aralkyl, alkylcarbonyl, or aralkylcarbonyl, provided that all valencies are satisfied; and
20          the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or
   (II):
                                                    67

                                         R7
                        R,      R6              R8                 R1             R6
                R2                                          R92                      R7
                                         Rio
                 3            R5                            R3           R 5 R 10    R8
                        R4                                         R4             R9
                                  1                                          II
            wherein Ri-Rio are each independently a H, hydroxyl, glycoside, prenyl,
   flavonoid, chalcone, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkenyl, C1
   12 alkoxy, C 1- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl, alkylcarbonyl, or
 5 aralkylcarbonyl; and
            wherein the flavans are compounds having a structure of Formula (VI):
                                                               R24
                                                                 0 ,  R25
                                 R21                O
                                                           R23
                                             R22
                                                        VI
            wherein R21, R 22 , R 23 , R 24 and R 25 are independently selected from a
   H, -OH, -SH, -OCH 3 , -SCH 3, -OR, -SR, -NH 2 , -NRH, -NR2 , -NR3)X-, esters of
10 substitution groups, independently selected from the group consisting of gallate,
   acetate, cinnamoyl and hydroxyl-cinnamoyl esters, trihydroxybenzoyl esters and
   caffeoyl esters; a carbon, oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur glycoside of a single or a
   combination of multiple sugars including aldopentose, methyl aldopentose, aldohexose,
   ketohexose; dimer, trimer or other polymerized flavans;
15          wherein R is a C1-o alkyl group; and
           X is a pharmaceutically acceptable counter anion of hydroxyl, chloride, iodide,
   sulfate, phosphate, acetate, fluoride, or carbonate.
            In any of the aforementioned compositions, a Morus extract is from Morus alba,
   and an Acacia extract is from Acacia catechu. In further embodiments of these
20 compositions, a major active ingredient in a Morus extract is Albanin G, Kuwanon G,
                                                      68

   Morusin, oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A or any combination thereof, and a major
   active ingredient in an Acacia extract is catechin, epicatechin, or both.
           In further embodiments, any of the aforementioned compostions comprise one
   or more prenylayted flavonoids are compounds having a structure of Formula (III), (IV)
 5 or (V), wherein the optional double bond is present in ring C, R 1i and R 12 are absent,
   and Rio is a prenyl group. In still further embodiments, any of the aforementioned
   compostions comprise one or more prenylayted flavonoids are compounds having a
   structure of Formula (III), (IV) or (V), wherein the at least one of Ri-R 9 is a prenyl
   group and Rio-R 12 are independently H or hydroxyl. In certain embodiments, any of the
10 aforementioned compostions comprise one or more stilbenes having a structure of
   Formula (I) or (II), wherein Ri-Rio are each independently a H, hydroxyl, glycoside, or
   C 14 alkoxy. In certain other embodiments, any of the aforementioned compostions
   comprise one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or (II),
   wherein Ri-Rio are each independently a H, hydroxyl, glycoside, or C 1 4 alkoxy. In
15 further embodiments, any of the aforementioned compostions comprise one or more
   stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or (II), wherein R 1, R5 , R6
   and Rio are H. In still further embodiments, any of the aforementioned compostions
   comprise one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or (II),
   wherein R 2 is a glucoside, or R 2 and R8 are glycosides, and one or more of R4 , R 9, and
20 Rio are hydroxyl. In yet further embodiments, any of the aforementioned compostions
   comprise one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or (II),
   wherein R 1, R 5 , and R6 are H, and one or more of R 2 -R4 and R 7-Rio are independently
   hydroxyl, C1 3 alkoxy, or any combination thereof. In certain specific embodiments, a
   stilbene compound includes oxyresveratrol, resveratrol, piceatannol, pinosylvin, 3,4'
25 dihydroxystilbene, combretastatin A-1, pterostilbene, rhapontigenin, and a stilbene
   glycoside includes mulberroside A, rhaponticin, piceid, astringin, or any combination of
   these stilbenes or stilbene glycosides.
           Any of the aforementioned Morus extract mixed with Acacia extract
   compositions are useful for promoting, managing or improving bone and cartilage
30 health, or for preventing and treating a bone and cartilage disorderor disease (e.g.,
   osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, osteonecrosis, osteophyte, bone fracture, metabolic bone
                                                69

   disorders, osteochondritis diseases, osteochondroma, osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa
   cystica, ostteitis pubis, condensing osteitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia
   (rickets), osteomyelitis, osteopenia, or any other bone and cartilage associated
   indication).
 5         In certain aspects, a composition of this disclosure comprises a mixture of a
   Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids and one or more
   stilbenes, and an Acacia extract enriched for flavans, wherein the composition inhibits
   cartilage degradation. Cartialge degradation is measured as the level of sulphated
   GAGs (e.g., released from proteoglycans) released into a medium at the end of a GAG
10 release assay reaction, which reflects the amount of articular cartilage degradation.
   "Inhibition of cartilage degradation" is established when there is a statistically
   significant reduction in sulphated GAG release as measured in, for example, a
   Blyscan     assay (Accurate Chemical and Scientific Corp., Westbury, New York) and
   described herein in Example 27.
15         In certain embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises an Uncaria
   extract containing or enriched for one or more flavans as described herein or in U.S.
   Patent No. 8,034,387, and a Morus extract containing or enriched for at least one
   Diels-Alder adduct of a chalcone and a prenylphenyl moiety, prenylated flavonoid,
   stilbene, or any combination thereof. In certain embodiments, a composition comprises
20 an Uncaria extract containing or enriched for one or more flavans as described herein
   or in U.S. Patent No. 8,034,387 and a Morus extract containing or enriched for one or
   more compounds listed in Table A and Examples 3, 5, 6 and 68. In still further
   embodiments, a composition comprises an Acacia extract containing or enriched for
   catechin, epicatichin, or both, and a Morus extract containing or enriched for one or
25 more prenylated flavonoids, one or more stilbenes, or any combination thereof. In other
   embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for
   prenylated flavonoids, and an Uncaria extract enriched for flavans.
           In further embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises a mixture of
   a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids and one or more
30 stilbenes, and an Uncaria extract enriched for one or more flavans,
                                                 70

            wherein the one or more prenylated flavonoids are compounds having a
   structure of Formula (III) or (IV):
                            R10 R17                                   5
                R2                  /Ri                     R,
                                                            R     OR5R
                         A  |RC|R,                                0 R12 R6B|
                                               R8                  R8
                          R3   O                            A     C
                         R4              B/R0R12                          Rio
                                  R5s    R     R7                    R411
                               III                 or             IV
   or a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, glycoside, prodrug or
 5 stereoisomer thereof, wherein Ri-R 1 2 are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl
   group, flavonoid, chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 1 2 alkyl,
   CI- 12 alkoxy, CI- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
   aralkyl, alkyl carbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or
   (IV); or one of Ri-R 1 2 joins with another one of Ri-R 1 2 to form a ring, and the
10 remaining Ri-R    12 are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, flavonoid,
   chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkoxy, Ci
   12 alkthio, CI-12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl,
   alkylcarbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl or a bond to a compound of structure (III) or (IV),
   provided that all valencies are satisfied; the chalcanoid is a compound of structure (V):
                                            R1   0
                                      3          R 5 R 10         R8
                                               R4           R9
15                                                  V
   or a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, glycoside, prodrug or
   stereoisomer thereof, wherein Ri-RIO are each independently H, hydroxyl, a prenyl
   group, flavonoid, chalcone, glycoside, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 1 2 alkyl,
   CI- 12 alkoxy, CI- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
20 aralkyl, alkyl carbonyl, or aralkylcarbonyl, provided that all valencies are satisfied; and
   the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or (II):
                                                    71

                                         R7
                        R,      R6              R8                 R1             R6
                R2                                          R92                      R7
                                         Rio
                 3            R5                            R3           R 5 R 10    R8
                        R4                                         R4             R9
                                  1                                          II
            wherein Ri-Rio are each independently a H, hydroxyl, glycoside, prenyl,
   flavonoid, chalcone, halogen, sulfhydryl, amino, aldehyde, CI- 12 alkyl, CI- 12 alkenyl, C1
   12 alkoxy, C 1- 12 alkthio, CI- 12 alkyamino, aryl, heteroaryl, aralkyl, alkylcarbonyl, or
 5 aralkylcarbonyl; and
            wherein the flavans are compounds having a structure of Formula (VI):
                                                               R24
                                                                     R25
                                  R21               0
                                                    OZZ     ZZ
                                                           R23
                                             R22
                                                        VI
            wherein R21, R 22 , R 23 , R 24 and R 25 are independently selected from a
   H, -OH, -SH, -OCH 3 , -SCH 3, -OR, -SR, -NH 2 , -NRH, -NR2 , -NR3IX , esters of
10 substitution groups, independently selected from the group consisting of gallate,
   acetate, cinnamoyl and hydroxyl-cinnamoyl esters, trihydroxybenzoyl esters and
   caffeoyl esters; a carbon, oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur glycoside of a single or a
   combination of multiple sugars including aldopentose, methyl aldopentose, aldohexose,
   ketohexose; dimer, trimer or other polymerized flavans;
15          wherein R is a C1-o alkyl group; and
           X is a pharmaceutically acceptable counter anion of hydroxyl, chloride, iodide,
   sulfate, phosphate, acetate, fluoride, or carbonate.
            In any of the aforementioned compositions, the Morus extract is from Morus
   alba, and the Uncaria extract is from Uncariagambir. In further embodiments, a major
20 active ingredient in the Morus extract is Albanin G, Kuwanon G, Morusin,
                                                      72

   oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A or any combination thereof, and a major active
   ingredient in the Uncaria extract is catechin, epicatechin, or a combination thereof.
             In further embodiments, the one or more prenylayted flavonoids are compounds
   having a structure of Formula (III), (IV) or (V), wherein the optional double bond is
 5 present in ring C, R 1i and R 12 are absent, and Rio is a prenyl group. In still further
   embodiments, the one or more prenylayted flavonoids are compounds having a
   structure of Formula (III), (IV) or (V), wherein the at least one of Ri-R 9 is a prenyl
   group and Rio-R 12 are independently H or hydroxyl. In certain specific embodiments,
   the prenylated flavonoids include Albanin G, Kuwanon G, Morusin, morusinol,
10 Sanggenon, isoxanthoumol, glabridin, cathayanon A, or any combination thereof. In
   certain embodiments, the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of
   Formula (I) or (II), wherein Ri-Rio are each independently a H, hydroxyl, glycoside, or
   C 1 .4 alkoxy. In further embodiments, the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a
   structure of Formula (I) or (II), wherein R 1, R5 , R6 and Rio are H. In still further
15 embodiments, the one or more stilbenes are compounds having a structure of Formula
   (I) or (II), wherein R 2 is a glucoside, or R 2 and R8 are glycosides, and one or more of
   R4 , R 9, and Rio are hydroxyl. In yet further embodiments, the one or more stilbenes are
   compounds having a structure of Formula (I) or (II), wherein R 1, R 5 , and R6 are H, and
   one or more of R2 -R4 and R 7-Ri0 are independently hydroxyl, C1 3 alkoxy, or any
20 combination thereof. In certain specific embodiments, a stilbene compound includes
   oxyresveratrol, resveratrol, piceatannol, pinosylvin, 3,4'-dihydroxystilbene,
   combretastatin A-1, pterostilbene, rhapontigenin, and a stilbene glycoside includes
   mulberroside A, rhaponticin, piceid, astringin, or any combination of these stilbenes or
   stilbene glycosides.
25           In some embodiments, the flavonoid is a compound of structure (III) and in
   other embodiments the flavonoid is a compound of structure (IV). In some othe
   embodiments, at least one of Ri-R     12 , such as Rio is prenyl. In other embodiments,
   polyflavonoids are provided and at least one of Ri-R       12 in the compounds of structure
   (III) or (IV) is a bond to a compounds of structure of (III) or (IV) (i.e., the compound
30 comprises more than one flavonoid of structure (III) and/or (IV)).
                                                    73

             In some other embodiments of the compounds of structure (III) or (IV), Ri-R           12
   is H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group or cycloalkyl. For example, in some embodiments the
   cycloalkyl is substituted and/or comprises one or more carbon-carbon double bonds
   (i.e., is unsaturated). The optional substitutents are typically selected from aryl, such as
 5 phenyl, and aryl carbonyl. Accordingly, in some further embodiments, the flavonoid
   has one of the following structures (Ila) or (IVa):
                                                                                     R6
                             R,      O01                               R,    O R5         R7
                      R2                      R                   R2     1      R12         RB
                             A       C          R                      A        1    R    R8
                      R30                          RR1
                                                                      0         R  1
                      R                 R 12    B
                       0~                       R    7    R                   Wa
                       N(       /\llIa
                            RuS\- I~a                      R~a\-1     R4a ..   R4a
                                         Wa            orRa
   wherein R      is, at each occurrence, independently H, hydroxyl or a prenyl group.
             In certain embodiments of the compounds of structure (Ila) or (IVa), Ri-R 3 and
10 R5 -R 12 are each independently selected from H, hydroxyl and a prenyl group. In certain
   embodiments, at least one one of Ri-R 3 , R4a or R5 -R1 2 is prenyl, for example in some
   embodiments, RIO is prenyl. In other embodiments of the compounds of structure (Ila)
   or (IVa), at least two of Ri-R 3 , R 4 a or R5 -R1 2 is hydroxyl.
             In some more specific embodiments, the flavonoid has one of the following
15 structures:
                            OHO            --                                     OH  O
          HO     0HO               O                             HO    OHO            O
                                     HO           OH                                   HO          OH
     HO                                                     HO
             HO          OH                          or            HO         OH
             In other embodiments, one of Ri-R12 joins with another one of Ri-R          12 to form a
   ring and the remaining Ri-R         12 are H, hydroxyl or a prenyl group. In certain of these
   embodiments, the ring is a heterocyclic ring, for example a cyclic ether ring.
                                                       74

   Accordingly, in certain embodiments the flavonoid has one of the following structures
   (IlIb) or (IVb):
                           R,     o R 11                   R R0    R11
                     R2 l            /R   10          R2               Rio
                           AlI  C :1                       AlI   C       R9
                                    R1     B                       R1    B
                                       R     6                        R    6
                                    IIfb          or               IIfb
            In certain embodiments of the compounds of structure (IIlb) or (IVb), R1, R2
        flvnodha       fl
                      Oh      owinstrOcture:
 5 and R5-R12 are each independently selected from H, hydroxyl and a prenyl group. In
   certain embodiments, at least one one of R1, R2 or R-R12 is prenyl, for example in some
   embodiments, Rio is prenyl. In other embodiments of the compounds of structure (IIb)
   or (IVb), at least two of R1, R2 or R-R12 is hydroxyl. In certain embodiments, the
   flavonoid has the following structure:
                                              OH O
                                        O        O
10                                                HO          OH
            In various other embodiments, Ri-Rio of the chalcanoid of structure (V) are each
   independently selected from H, hydroxyl, a prenyl group, and CI-12 alkoxy.
            Any of the aforementioned Morus extract mixed with Uncaria extract
   compositions are useful for promoting, managing or improving bone and cartilage
15 health, or for preventing and treating a bone and cartilage disorderor disease (e.g.,
   osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, osteonecrosis, osteophyte, bone fracture, metabolic bone
   disorders, osteochondritis diseases, osteochondroma, osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa
   cystica, ostteitis pubis, condensing osteitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia
   (rickets), osteomyelitis, osteopenia, or any other bone and cartilage associated
20 indication). In certain embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises a
   mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids and one or
                                                 75

   more stilbenes, and an Uncariaextract enriched for flavans, wherein the composition
   inhibits bone reabporption and cartilage degradation.
           In certain embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract
   enriched for prenylated flavonoids, an Uncaria extract enriched for flavans, and an
 5 Acacia extract enriched for flavans. In further embodiments, a composition comprises a
   mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids and one or
   more stilbenes, an Uncaria extract enriched for flavans including catechin, epicatechin
   or both, and an Acacia extract enriched for flavans including catechin, epicatechin or
   both. In certain embodiments, the Morus extract is from Morus alba, the Uncaria
10 extract is from Uncariagambir, and the Acacia extract is from Acacia catechu. In
   further embodiments, a major active ingredient in the Morus extract is Albanin G,
   Kuwanon G, Morusin, oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A or any combination thereof, and
   a major active ingredient in the Uncariaand Acacia extracts is catechin, epicatechin, or
   a combination thereof. Any of these three extract compositions (Morus, Uncaria,
15 Acacia) are useful for promoting, managing or improving joint health, or for preventing
   and treating a bone and cartilage disorderor disease (e.g., osteoporosis, osteoarthritis,
   osteonecrosis, osteophyte, bone fracture, metabolic bone disorders, osteochondritis
   diseases, osteochondroma, osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa cystica, ostteitis pubis,
   condensing osteitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia (rickets), osteomyelitis,
20 osteopenia, or any other bone and cartilage associated indication).
           In certain embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises a mixture of
   a Morus extract containing or enriched for at least one Diels-Alder adduct of a chalcone
   and a prenylphenyl moiety, prenylated flavonoid, stilbene or any combination thereof,
   and a Curcuma extract enriched for curcuminoids. In further embodiments, a
25 composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract containing or enriched for one or
   more compounds listed in Table A and Examples 3, 5, 6 and 68, and a Curcuma extract
   enriched for one or more curcuminoids. In still further embodiments, a composition
   comprises a Morus extract containing or enriched for one or more prenylated
   flavonoids, one or more stilbenes or any combination thereof, and a Curcuma extract
30 enriched for one or more curcuminoids. In certain embodiments, the Morus extract is
   from Morus alba, and the Curcuma extract is from Curcuma longa. In any of the
                                               76

   aforementioned compositions, a major active ingredient in the Morus extract is Albanin
   G, Kuwanon G, Morusin, oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A or any combination thereof,
   and a major active ingredient in the Curcuma extract is curcumin, demethoxy
   curcumin, bisdemethoxy-curcumin or any combination thereof.
 5         Any of the aforementioned Morus extract mixed with Curcuma extract
   compositions are useful for promoting, managing or improving bone and cartilage
   health, or for preventing, or treating a bone and cartilage disorderor disease (e.g.,
   osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, osteonecrosis, osteophyte, bone fracture, metabolic bone
   disorders, osteochondritis diseases, osteochondroma, osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa
10 cystica, ostteitis pubis, condensing osteitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia
   (rickets), osteomyelitis, osteopenia, or any other bone and cartilage associated
   indication). In certain embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises a
   mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids and one or
   more stilbenes, and an Curcuma extract enriched for one or more curcuminoids,
15 wherein the composition inhibits bone reabsorption and cartilage degradation.
           In certain embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract
   enriched for prenylated flavonoids, an Acacia extract enriched for flavans, and a
   Curcuma extract enriched for curcuminoids. In further embodiments, a composition
   comprises a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids
20 and one or more stilbenes, an Acacia extract enriched for flavans including catechin,
   epicatechin or both, and a Curcuma extract enriched for one or more curcuminoids. In
   certain embodiments, the Morus extract is from Morus alba, the Acacia extract is from
   Acacia catechu, and the Curcuma extract is from Curcuma longa. In further
   embodiments, a major active ingredient in the Morus extract is Albanin G, Kuwanon G,
25 Morusin, oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A or any combination thereof, and a major
   active ingredient in the Curcuma extract is curcumin (diferuloylmethane), demethoxy
   curcumin, bisdemethoxy-curcumin or any combination thereof.
           In certain embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract
   enriched for prenylated flavonoids, an Uncaria extract enriched for flavans, and a
30 Curcuma extract enriched for curcuminoids. In further embodiments, a composition
   comprises a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids
                                                 77

   and one or more stilbenes, an Uncariaextract enriched for flavans including catechin,
   epicatechin or both, and a Curcuma extract enriched for one or more curcuminoids. In
   certain embodiments, the Morus extract is from Morus alba, the Uncariaextract is from
   Uncariagambir, and the Curcuma extract is from Curcuma longa.
 5          Any of these three extract compositions (Morus, Morus, Acacia, Curcuma or
   Morus, Uncaria,Curcuma) are useful for promoting, managing or improving bone
   health, cartilage health or both, or for preventing or for treating a bone disorder, a
   cartilage disorder or both (e.g., osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, osteonecrosis, osteophyte,
   bone fracture, metabolic bone disorders, osteochondritis diseases, osteochondroma,
10 osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa cystica, ostteitis pubis, condensing osteitis,
   osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia (rickets), osteomyelitis, osteopenia, or any other
   bone or cartilage associated indication).
            In any of the aforementioned compositions, a Morus extract is enriched for
   prenylated flavonoids, such as Albanin G, Kuwanon G, Morusin, or any combination
15 thereof. In certain embodiments, a Morus extract is enriched for stilbenes, such as
   oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A, or any combination thereof. In further embodiments, a
   Morus extract is enriched for prenylated flavonoids and stilbenes, including Albanin G,
   Kuwanon G, Morusin, oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A, or any combination thereof. In
   still further embodiments, a Morus extract is enriched for prenylated flavonoids and
20 stilbenes, wherein the extract comprises from about 2% to about 25% prenylated
   flavonoids and from about 1%to about 8% stilbenes, or wherein the extract comprises
   at least 3% prenylated flavonoids and at least 3% stilbenes (weight to weight). In other
   embodiments, prenylated flavonoids, stilbenes, or both are isolated or purified from a
   Morus extract and used in the compositions of this disclosure. Exemplary active
25 ingredients that can be isolated or purified from a Morus extract and used in the
   compositions of this disclosure include Albanin G, Kuwanon G, Morusin,
   oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A, or any combination thereof. In any of the
   aforementioned compositions, the Morus extract is from Morus alba.
            In any of the aforementioned embodiments, the compositions comprising
30 mixtures of extracts or compounds may be mixed at a particular ratio by weight. For
   example, a Morus extract and an Acacia extract may be blended in a 2:1 weight ratio,
                                                 78

   respectivley. In certain embodiments, the ratio (by weight) of two extracts or
   compounds of this disclosure ranges from about 0.5:5 to about 5:0.5. Similar ranges
   apply when more than two extracts or compounds (e.g., three, four, five) are used.
   Exemplary ratios include 0.5:1, 0.5:2, 0.5:3, 0.5:4, 0.5:5, 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 2:1, 2:2,
 5 2:3, 2:4, 2:5, 3:1, 3:2, 3:3, 3:4, 3:5, 4:1, 4:2, 4:3, 4:4, 4:5, 5:1, 5:2, 5:3, 5:4, 5:5, 1:0.5,
   2:0.5, 3:0.5, 4:0.5, or 5:0.5. In certain embodiments, Morus and Acacia extracts are
   blended in a 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, or 1:5 weight ratio, respectively. In
   further embodiments, Morus and Acacia extracts are blended in a range of 1:2 to 4:1
   weight ratio, respectively. In certain embodiments, Morus and Uncaria extracts are
10 blended in a 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, or 1:5 weight ratio, respectively. In
   further embodiments, Morus and Uncaria extracts are blended in a range of 1:4 to 4:1
   weight ratio, respectively. In certain embodiments, Morus and Curcuma extracts are
   blended in a 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, or 1:5 weight ratio, respectively. In
   further embodiments, Morus and Curcuma extracts are blended in a range of 1:1 to 4:1
15 weight ratio, respectively.
           In any of the aforementioned embodiments, the compositions comprising
   mixtures of extracts or compounds may be present at certain percentage levels or ratios.
   In certain embodiments, a composition comprising a Morus extract can include 0.1% to
   49.9% or about 1% to about 10% or about 0.5% to about 3% of prenylated flavonoids,
20 0.10%to 49.9% or about 1% to about 10% or about 0.50% to about 30% of stilbenes, or a
   combination thereof. In certain embodiments, a composition comprising an Acacia
   extract can include from about 0.01% to about        9 9 .9 %
                                                                 flavans or include at least 1%,
   2%, 3%, 4%, 5%,6%,7%,8%, 9%, 10%, 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 16%,                        1 7 %,
   18% , 19 %, 2 0%, 3 0%, 3 5%, 4 0%, 4 5%, 50%, 55%, 6 0%, 6 5%, 7 0%, 75%, or 8 0%
25 flavans (e.g., catechin, epicatechin, or both)
           In certain examples, a composition of this disclosure may be formulated to
   further comprise a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, or
   excipient, wherein the pharmaceutical or nutraceutical formulation comprises from
   about 0.5 weight percent (wt%) to about 90wt% of active or major active ingredients of
30 an extract mixture. In further embodiments, the pharmaceutical or nutraceutical
   formulation comprises from about 0.5 weight percent (wt%) to about 90wt%, about
                                                   79

   0.5wt% to about 80wt%, about 0.5wt% to about 75wt%, about 0.5wt% to about 70wt%,
   about 0.5wt% to about 50wt%, about 1.Owt% to about 40wt%, about 1.Owt% to about
   20wt%, about 1.Owt% to about 1Owt%, about 3.Owt% to about 9.Owt%, about 5.0 wt%
   to about lOwt%, about 3.Owt% to about 6wt% of the major active ingredients in an
 5 extract mixture, or the like. In any of the aforementioned formulations, a composition
   of this disclosure is formulated as a tablet, hard capsule, softgel capsule, powder, or
   granule.
            In certain embodiments, a composition comprising a Morus extract with a
   pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient will contain
10 at least 6wt% or at least 5wt% or at least 3wt% or at least 2wt% or at least lwt% active
   Morus ingredients, such as prenylated flavonoids, stilbenes, or a combination thereof.
   For example, a pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition comprising a Morus extract
   will include at least 3wt% prenylated flavonoids or from about at least 0.5wt% to about
   at least 2.5wt% or from about at least lwt% to about at least 2.5wt% or from about at
15 least 1.5wt% to about at least 2.5wt% (e.g., Albanin G, Kuwanon G, Morusin, or any
   combination thereof) and at least 3% stilbenes (e.g., oxyresveratrol, mulberroside A, or
   both). In certain embodiments, a composition comprising an Acacia or Uncaria extract
   with a pharmaceutically or nutraceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient will
   contain at least 20wt% active Acacia or Uncaria ingredients, such as flavans. For
20 example, a pharmaceutical or nutraceutical composition comprising an Acacia or
   Uncaria extract will include at least about 3.5wt% to about at least 14wt% or at least
   about 6wt% to about at least 16.5wt% (e.g., catechin, epicatechin, or both). In certain
   embodiments, a composition comprising a Curcuma extract with a pharmaceutically or
   nutraceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient will contain at least 25wt%
25 active Curcuma ingredients, such as cucuminoids. For example, a pharmaceutical or
   nutraceutical composition comprising a Curcuma extract will include at least about
   4.5wt% to at least about 13wt% curcuminoids (e.g., curcumin, demethoxy-curcumin,
   bisdemethoxy-curcumin, or any combination thereof). In any of the aforementioned
   formulations, a composition of this disclosure is formulated as a tablet, hard capsule,
30 softgel capsule, powder, or granule.
                                                 80

             In certain embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises Morus and
   Acacia extracts, wherein the compostion comprises from about lwt% to about 2.5wt%
   prenylated flavonoids including Albanin G, Kuwanon G and Morusin, from about
    lwt% to about 2.5wt% stilbenes including oxyresveratrol and mulberroside A, and
 5  about 3.5wt% to about 14wt% flavans including catechin and epicatechin. In certain
    other embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises Morus and Uncaria
    extracts, wherein the compostion comprises from about 0.5wt% to about 2.5wt%
   prenylated flavonoids including Albanin G, Kuwanon G and Morusin, from about
    0.5wt% to about 2.5wt% stilbenes including oxyresveratrol and mulberroside A, and
10  about 6wt% to about 16.5wt% flavans including catechin and epicatechin. In certain
    further embodiments, a composition of this disclosure comprises Morus and Curcuma
    extracts, wherein the compostion comprises from about 1.5wt% to about 2.5wt%
   prenylated flavonoids including Albanin G, Kuwanon G and Morusin, from about
    1.5wt% to about 2.5wt% stilbenes including oxyresveratrol and mulberroside A, and
15  about 4.5wt% to about 13wt% curcuminoids including curcumin.
             Any of these compositions may be used to promote joint health; improve joint
    health; maintain joint health; treat or manage joint health; support joint health; support a
    normal and comfortable range of motion and/or flexibility; improve range of motion
    and/or flexibility; reduce the action of harmful enzymes that break down protective
20 joint tissues; alter the action of enzymes that affect joint health; improve joint
    movement and/or joint function; improve physical mobility; manage and/or maintain
   physical mobility; alleviate joint pain and/or joint stiffness; improve joint physical
    function; promote or enhance flexibility and comfortable movement; promote healthy
   joint function and joint comfort; relieve joint discomfort; relieve joint discomfort
25  caused by exercise, work, overexertion or any combination thereof; promote healthy
   joints by protecting cartilage integrity; maintain joint cartilage; support joint cartilage;
    treat, prevent, or manage cartilage degradation; minimize cartilage degradation;
   promote joint health or comfort by maintaining synovial fluid for joint lubrication;
    support joint stability and joint flexibility; revitalize joints and promote mobility;
30 promote flexible joints and strong cartilage; maintain steady blood flow to joints to
                                                    81

   support enhanced flexibility and/or strength; promote joint comfort and a wide range of
   motion after exercise, work, overexertion, or any combination thereof.
            In other embodiments, any of these compositions may be useful for promoting,
   managing or improving bone health, cartilage health or both, or for preventing or
 5 treating a bone disorder, a cartilage disorder (e.g., osteoporosis, osteoarthritis,
   osteonecrosis, osteophyte, bone fracture, metabolic bone disorders, osteochondritis
   diseases, osteochondroma, osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa cystica, ostteitis pubis,
   condensing osteitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia (rickets), osteomyelitis,
   osteopenia, or any other bone and cartilage associated indication).
10          In other embodiments of the present disclosure, a composition can also include
   an adjuvant or a carrier. Adjuvants include substances that generally enhance the
   function of the formula in promoting, maintaining, or improving joint health. Suitable
   adjuvants include Freund's adjuvant; other bacterial cell wall components; aluminum
   based salts; calcium-based salts; magnesium, zinc, silica; boron, histidine, glucosamine
15 sulfates, Chondroitin sulfate, copper gluconate, polynucleotides; vitamin D, vitamin K,
   toxoids; shark and bovine cartilage; serum proteins; viral coat proteins; other bacterial
   derived preparations; y-interferon; block copolymer adjuvants, such as Hunter's
   Titermax adjuvant (VaxcelTM, Inc. Norcross, Ga.); Ribi adjuvants (available from Ribi
   ImmunoChem Research, Inc., Hamilton, Mont.); and saponins and their derivatives,
20 such as Quil A (available from Superfos Biosector A/S, Denmark). Carriers include
   compounds that increase the half-life of a therapeutic or neutraceutical composition in a
   treated subject. Suitable carriers include polymeric controlled release formulations,
   biodegradable implants, liposomes, bacteria, viruses, oils, esters, or glycols.
           Additional adjunctive agents useful with the compositions of this dislclosure
25 include glucosamine (including glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine hydrochloride,
   N-acetylglucosamine), glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), hyaluronic acid (HA), elastin,
   collagen, chicken collagen Type II, hyaluronic acid and collagen blend, chondroitin
   sulfate, methylsulfonylmethane (MSM), bovine cartilage, amino acids (including
   desmosine, isodesmosine, L-glutamine), Boswellia serrataextract, piperine (e.g., Piper
30 nigrum L (black pepper) extract or Piperlongum L (long pepper) extract), bromelain
   (pineapple extract), trypsin, rutin, emu oil, transforming growth factor(TGF)-P,
                                                 82

   carotenoids (such as lutein, carotene, canthaxanthin); vitamins (such as Vitamin D3), o
   3 fatty acids (such as eicosapentaenoic acid, EPA; docosahexaenoic acid, DHA),
   calcium fructoborate, eggshell membrane, astaxanthin, Hydrilla verticillata extract (leaf
   and bud), ginger extract (root), grapefruit extract (seed), non-steroidal anti
 5 inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), or any combination thereof.
           Exemplary NSAIDS include salicylates, such as aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid),
   diflusinal, salsalate; propionic acid derivatives, such as ibuprofen, dexibuprofen,
   naproxen, fenoprofen, ketoprofen, dexketoprofen, flurbiprofen, oxprozin, loxoprofen;
   acetic acid derivatives, such as indometacin, tolmetin, sulindac, etodolac, ketorolac,
10 diclofenac, nabumetone; enolic acid derivatives, such as piroxicam, meloxicam,
   tenoxicam, droxicam, lomoxicam, isoxicam; fenamic acid derivatives, such as
   mefenamic acid, meclofenamic acid, flufenamic acid, tolfenamic acid; selective COX-2
   inhibitors, such s celecoxib, parecoxib, lumiracoxib, etoricoxib, firocoxib, paracetamol,
   H-harpagide; suphonanilides, such as nimesulide; nicotinic acid derivatives, such as
15 lysine clonixinate; dual COX/LX inhibitors, such as licofelone. A related drug,
   paracetamol or "acetaminophen" is often considered in the same category as NSAIDS
   due to its use as a non-narcotic analgesic and fever-reducing agent, but is not classified
   as a NSAID because it only exerts weak anti-inflammatory activity.
           In certain embodiments, compositions of the instant disclosure further comprise
20 an injectable anticoagulant, an oral anticoagulant, an antiplatelet agent, an anti-angina
   agent, or a COX-2 selective inhibitor. Examplary injectable anticoagulants include
   heparin, dalteparin, enoxaparin and tinzaparin. Examples of oral anticoagulants
   include, but are not limited to warfarin, vitamin K antagonists and vitamin K reductase
   inhibitors. Examples of antiplatelet agents include aspirin, clodipogrel and
25 dipyridamole. Examplary anti-angina drugs include nitrates, beta-blockers, calcium
   blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and potassium channel activators.
   Finally, examples of COX-2 selective inhibitors include rofecoxib, celecoxib, etodolac
   and meloxicam.
           In certain embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract
30 enriched for one or more prenylated flavonoids and one or more stilbenes, an Acacia
   extract enriched for flavans, and a glucosamine-type compound. In further
                                                 83

   embodiments, the Morus extract is a Morus alba extract, the Acacia extract is an Acacia
   catechu extract, and the glucosamine-type compound is glucosamine sulfate,
   glucosamine hydrochloride, N-acetylglucosamine, chondroitin sulfate,
   methylsulfonylmethane, and/or hyaluronic acid. In certain embodiments, Morus extract,
 5 Acacia extract, and NAG are blended ina 1:1:1, 2:1:1, 3:1:1, 4:1:1, 5:1:1, 1:2:1, 1:3:1,
   1:4:1, 1:5:1, 1:1:2, 1:1:3, 1:1:4, or 1:1:5 weight ratio, respectively. In certain
   embodiments, Morus extract, Uncariaextract, and NAG are blended in a 1:1:1, 2:1:1,
   3:1:1, 4:1:1, 5:1:1, 1:2:1, 1:3:1, 1:4:1, 1:5:1, 1:1:2, 1:1:3, 1:1:4, or 1:1:5 weight ratio,
   respectively. In certain embodiments, Morus extract, Curcuma extract, and NAG are
10 blended ina :1:11, 2:1:1, 3:1:1, 4:1:1, 5:1:1, 1:2:1, 1:3:1, 1:4:1, 1:5:1, 1:1:2, 1:1:3,
   1:1:4, or 1:1:5 weight ratio, respectively. In certain embodiments, a composition
   comprises a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for prenylated flavonoids, an Uncaria
   extract enriched for flavans, and a glucosamine-type compound. In further
   embodiments, the Morus extract is a Morus alba extract, the Uncariaextract is an
15 Uncariagambir extract, and the glucosamine-type compound is glucosamine sulfate,
   glucosamine hydrochloride, N-acetylglucosamine, chondroitin sulfate,
   methylsulfonylmethane, or hyaluronic acid.
           In certain embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract
   enriched for prenylated flavonoids, a Curcuma extract enriched for curcuminoids, and a
20 glucosamine-type compound. In further embodiments, the Morus extract is a Morus
   alba extract, the Curcuma extract is a Curcuma longa extract, and the glucosamine-type
   compound is glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine hydrochloride, N-acetylglucosamine,
   chondroitin sulfate, methylsulfonylmethane, or hyaluronic acid.
           In any of the aforementioned compositions, the compositions may additionally
25 comprise Mentha extract enriched for rosmarinic acid, eriocitrin, or both. Rosmarinic
   acid accumulation is found most notably in many plants of the Lamiaceae family
   (dicotyledons), especially in the subfamily Nepetoideae, inlcuding plants commonly
   used as culinary herbs, such as Ocimum basilicum (basil), Ocimum tenuiflorumcum
   (holy basil), Melissa officinalis (lemon balm), Rosmarinus officinalis (rosemary),
30 Origanum majorana (marjoram),Salvia officinalis (sage), Thymus vulgaris (thyme) and
   Mentha piperita(peppermint). Rosmarinic acid is also found in plants with medicinal
                                                  84

    properties, such as common self-heal (Prunellavulgaris) or species in the genus Stachy.
    Other exemplary plants that contain rosmarinic acid include Heliotropium
   foertherianum (a plant in the family Boraginaceae), species in the genera Maranta
    (Marantaleuconeura,Marantadepressa, which are plants in the family Marantaceae,
 5  monocotyledons), species in the genera Thalia (Thalia geniculata), and Anthoceros
    agrestis (hornwort).
            Exemplary mint plants containing rosmarinic acid or eriocitrin or both include
    Mentha aquatica(Water mint or Marsh mint); Mentha arvensis (Corn Mint, Wild Mint,
    Japanese Peppermint, Field Mint, Pudina, Banana mint); Mentha asiatica(Asian Mint);
10  Mentha australis (Australian mint); Mentha canadensis;Mentha cervina (Hart's
    Pennyroyal); Mentha citrata (Bergamot mint, Orange mint); Mentha crispata
    (Wrinkled-leaf mint); Mentha dahurica(Dahurian Thyme); Mentha diemenica (Slender
    mint); Mentha laxiflora (Forest mint); Mentha longifolia (Mentha sylvestris, Horse
    Mint); Mentha piperita (Peppermint);Mentha pulegium (Pennyroyal);Mentha requienii
15  (Corsican mint); Mentha sachalinensis(Garden mint); Mentha satureioides(Native
    Pennyroyal); Mentha spicata (M. viridis, syn M. cordifolia Spearmint, Curly mint);
    Mentha suaveolens (Apple mint, Pineapple mint (a variegated cultivar of Apple mint));
    Mentha vagans (Gray mint).
            In certain embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract
20  enriched for prenylated flavonoids, an Acacia extract enriched for flavans, and a
    Mentha extract enriched for rosmarinic acid, eriocitrin, or both. In further embodiments,
    the Morus extract is a Morus alba extract, the Acacia extract is an Acacia catechu
    extract, and the Mentha extract is a Mentha piperita extract. In certain embodiments,
    Morus, Acacia and Mentha extracts are blended in a 1:1:0.5, 2:1:0.5, 3:1:0.5, 4:1:0.5,
25  5:1:0.5, 1:2:0.5, 1:3:0.5, 1:4:0.5, 1:5:0.5, 1:1:1, 1:1:2, 1:1:3, 1:1:4, or 1:1:5 weight ratio,
    respectively.
            In certain embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract
    enriched for prenylated flavonoids, an Uncaria extract enriched for flavans, and a
    Mentha extract enriched for rosmarinic acid, eriocitrin, or both. In further embodiments,
30  the Morus extract is a Morus alba extract, the Uncaria extract is an Uncariagambir
    extract, and the Mentha extract is a Mentha piperita extract. In certain embodiments,
                                                   85

   Morus, Uncaria and Mentha extracts are blended in a 1:1:0.5, 2:1:0.5, 3:1:0.5, 4:1:0.5,
   5:1:0.5, 1:2:0.5, 1:3:0.5, 1:4:0.5, 1:5:0.5, 1:1:1, 1:1:2, 1:1:3, 1:1:4, or 1:1:5 weight ratio,
   respectively.
            In certain embodiments, a composition comprises a mixture of a Morus extract
 5 enriched for prenylated flavonoids, a Curcuma extract enriched for curcuminoids, and a
   Mentha extract enriched for rosmarinic acid, eriocitrin, or both. In further embodiments,
   the Morus extract is a Morus alba extract, the Curcuma extract is a Curcuma longa
   extract, and the Mentha extract is a Mentha piperita extract. In certain embodiments,
   Morus, Curcuma and Mentha extracts are blended in a 1:1:0.5, 2:1:0.5, 3:1:0.5, 4:1:0.5,
10 5:1:0.5, 1:2:0.5, 1:3:0.5, 1:4:0.5, 1:5:0.5, 1:1:1, 1:1:2, 1:1:3, 1:1:4, or 1:1:5 weight ratio,
   respectively.
            Any of the aforementioned compositions are useful for promoting bone health,
   cartilage health or both; improving bone health, cartilage health or both; maintaining
   bone health, cartilage health or both; treating or managing bone health, cartilage health
15 or both; supporting bone health, cartilage health or both; supporting a normal and
   comfortable range of motion or flexibility; improving range of motion or flexibility;
   reducing the action of harmful enzymes that break down protective bone tissue,
   cartilage tissue or both; altering the action of enzymes that affect bone health, cartilage
   health or both; improving joint movement or bone function, cartilage function or both;
20 improving physical mobility; managing or maintaining physical mobility; alleviating
   bone and cartilage pain or joint stiffness; improving physical function of bone or
   cartilage; promoting or enhancing flexibility and comfortable movement; promoting
   healthy bone function, cartilage function, joint comfort or any combination thereof;
   relieving discomfort; relieving discomfort caused by oxidative stress, harmful free
25 radicals, aging, wear and tear, exercise, work, overexertion or any combination thereof;
   managing or reducing bone damage, cartilage damage or both caused by oxidative
   stress, harmful free radicals, aging, wear and tear, exercise, work, overexertion or any
   combination thereof; promoting healthy bone, healthy cartilage or both by protecting
   bone integrity, cartilage integrity or both; maintaining bone, cartilage or both;
30 supporting bone, supporting cartilage or both; treating, preventing, or managing bone
   absorption, cartilage degradation or both; minimizing cartilage degradation; promoting
                                                  86

   bone health, cartilage health, joint comfort, or any combintion thereof by maintaining
   synovial fluid for joint lubrication; supporting bone stability; revitalizing bone, cartilage
   or both to promote mobility; promoting flexible joints, strong cartilage or both;
   maintaining steady blood flow to bone to support enhanced bone strength; promoting
 5 comfort and a wide range of motion after exercise, work, overexertion or any
   combination thereof.
           In further embodiments, any of the aforementioned compositions are useful for
   promoting, managing or improving bone health, cartilage health or both, or for
   preventing, managing or treating a bone disorder, cartilage disorder or both (such as
10 osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, osteonecrosis, osteophyte, bone fracture, metabolic bone
   disorders, osteochondritis diseases, osteochondroma, osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa
   cystica, ostteitis pubis, condensing osteitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia
   (rickets), osteomyelitis, osteopenia), or any other bone- or cartilage-associated
   indication, or any combination thereof.
15         Bone is constantly undergoing a metabolic process called remodeling. This
   includes a degradation process, bone reabsorption, and a building process, bone
   formation. Cross-linked telopeptides collagens are the products in the remodeling
   process. While telopeptide of type I collagen accounts about 90% of the organic matrix
   of bone, the type II collagen is the major organic constituent of cartilage. Disruption of
20 the structural integrity of cartilage is the major histological finding in osteoarthritis and
   rheumatoid arthritis. Following the degradation of cartilage, fragments of C-terminal
   cross-linked telopeptide type II collagen (CTX-II) are being released into circulation
   and subsequently secreted into urine. Therefore, (CTX-II) is considered a viable
   biomarker for cartilage degradation and disease progression. In multiple studies,
25 urinary CTX-II has been reported to be useful indicator in progression of osteoarthritis,
   and early indication of rheumatoid arthritis.
           As osteoarthritis progresses, the joint components including matrix and cartilage
   are degraded by proteases. The degraded products such as CTX-II are released into the
   serum and urine, and the CTX-II concentration in body fluids reflects OA progression.
30 Levels of CTX-II can be measured by known assays, such as the one described in
   Example 38 herein.
                                                 87

           In certain embodiments, the promotion, management or improvement of bone
  health, cartilage health or both, or prevention, management or treatment of a bone
  disorder, cartilage disorder or both (such as osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, osteonecrosis,
  osteophyte, bone fracture, metabolic bone disorders, osteochondritis diseases,
5 osteochondroma, osteitis deformans, osteitis fibrosa cystica, ostteitis pubis, condensing
  osteitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, osteomalacia (rickets), osteomyelitis, osteopenia), or
  any other bone- or cartilage-associated indication, or any combination thereof, is
  detected by measuring a biomarker, such as CTX-II.
                                                88

                                         EXAMPLES
                                         EXAMPLE 1
            PREPARATION OF ORGANIC AND AQUEOUS EXTRACTS FROM MORUS ALBA
           Plant material from Morus alba L. root barks was ground to a particle size of no
 5 larger than two millimeters (mm). Dried ground plant material (60 grams (g) was then
   transferred to an Erlenmeyer flask and Methanol:Dichloromethane (1:1 volume ratio)
   (600 milliliters (mL)) was added. The mixture was shaken for one hour, filtered and the
   biomass was extracted again with Methanol:Dichloromethane (1:1 volume ratio) (600
   mL). These organic extracts were combined and evaporated under vacuum to provide
10 3.55 g of organic extract (OE). After organic extraction, the biomass was air dried and
   extracted once with ultrapure water (600 mL). The aqueous solution was filtered and
   freeze-dried to provide 4.44 g of aqueous extract (AE).
           Similar results were obtained using the same procedure or reflex in flasks, but
   with the organic solvent being replaced with methanol or ethanol to provide a methanol
15 extract (ME) or ethanol extract (EE), respectively. Other species and parts of plants and
   marine sample were extracted using this same procedure.
                                         EXAMPLE 2
             HIGH THROUGHPUT PURIFICATION       (HTP) OF ACTIVE PLANT EXTRACTS
           Organic extract material (400 mg) from the Morus alba root bark extract
20 obtained in Example 1 was loaded onto a prepacked (2 cm ID x 8.2 cm, 10 g silica gel)
   column. The column was then eluted using a Hitachi® High Throughput Purification
   (HTP) system with a gradient mobile phase of (A) 50:50 volume ratio of
   EtOAc:Hexane and (B) Methanol from 100% A to 100% B in 30 minutes at a flow rate
   of 5 mL/min. The separation was monitored using a broadband wavelength UV
25 detector and the fractions were collected in a 96-deep-well plate at 1.9 mL/well using a
   Gilson fraction collector. The sample plate was dried under low vacuum and
   centrifugation and then the samples were dissolved with 1.5 mL dimethyl sulfoxide
                                               89

   (DMSO) per well. A portion (100 pL) was taken and combined (based on UV trace)
   for the function assay. Column fractions having significant biological activity were
   retained for further testing.
                                           EXAMPLE 3
 5       ISOLATION, PURIFICATION, AND IDENTIFICATION OF PRENYLATED FLAVONOIDS
                                   FROM MORUSALBA EXTRACTS
           An organic extract (11 g) from the root barks of Morus alba, obtained as
   described in Example 1, was divided and loaded separately onto two pre-packed flash
   columns (120 g silica, particle size 32-60 pim, 4 cm x 19 cm), and then eluted with
10 Hexane, EtOAc and Methanol (as the mobile phase) at a flow rate of 20 mL/minutes.
   The gradients started with 95% Hexane/EtOAC for 5 minutes, then increased EtOAC
   from 5% to 100% over the duration of 25 minutes, and then held at 100% EtOAc for
   additional five minutes, before increasing MeOH from 0% to 50% MeOH/EtOAC over
   a next period of 15 minutes, finally changed the elution solution to 100% MeOH and
15 eluted the column for another 16 minutes. The total run time was 66 minutes and
   88 fractions were generated for each column. The fractions were analyzed by silica gel
   thin layer chromatography (TLC) and pooled together to generate eight column eluent
   pools.
            The resulting best active pool (containing 300 mg of material) was fractionated
20 on a preparative C18 column (30 cm x 250 cm) with a gradient mobile phase of water
   (A) and methanol (B) over 60 minutes at a flow rate of 20 mL/minute to generate
   22 fraction pools. Mass Spectrometry (MS) analysis showed that these pooled fractions
   of material contain three related compounds, described in more detail below.
            Compound 1 (28.2 mg) was identified as a Diels-Alder adduct of a chalcone and
25 prenylphenyl moiety called Kuwanon G, also known as Moracenin B or Albanin F, by
   High Resolution Electron Spray Ionization Mass Spectroscopy (HRESIMS) (m/z)
   [M+H]    = 693.2329; UV    )max  (MeOH): 265, 320 nm; IH NMR (600 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ,
   100'C) 6 ppm 1.44 (s, 3 H) 1.52 (br. s., 3 H) 1.58 (s, 3 H) 1.92 (in, 2 H) 3.08 (d, 3 H)
   3.56 (in, 2 H) 4.29 (d, J=10.02 Hz, 1 H) 4.48 (in, 1 H) 5.07 (in, 1 H) 5.14 (br. s, 1 H)
                                                90

   5.93 (s, 2 H) 5.96 (dd, J=8.35, 2.23 Hz, 1 H) 6.02 (br s, 1 H) 6.11 (d, J=2.23 Hz, 1 H)
   6.41 (dd, J=8.35, 2.23 Hz, 1 H) 6.51 (s, 1 H) 6.60 (m, 1 H) 7.13 (d, J=8.35 Hz, 1 H)
   7.28 (br s, 1 H); 3C NMR (126 MHz, METHANOL-d 4 ) 6 ppm 16.35 (1 C) 21.78 (1 C)
   23.35 (1 C) 24.53 (1 C) 37.72 (1 C) 97.14 (1 C) 101.57 (1 C) 102.22 (1 C) 102.33 (1 C)
 5 104.28 (1 C) 106.55 (2 C) 107.00 (1 C) 107.21 (1 C) 112.37 (1 C) 114.47 (1 C) 120.27
   (1C) 121.62 (2 C) 123.27 (1 C) 131.05 (1 C) 131.35 (2 C) 132.62 (1 C) 132.99 (1 C)
   155.16 (1 C) 155.56 (1 C) 156.38 (1 C) 159.66 (1 C) 160.39 (2 C) 161.13 (1 C) 161.88
   (1C) 164.51 (1 C) 164.63 (1 C) 182.46 (1 C) 208.68 (1 C).
                                                        OH
                                         OH
                                               HO
                              HO                            CH,
                       HO         O                 O        CH3
                               OH           HO           OH
                                        CH3                      Kuwanon G
10          Compound 2 (10.5 mg) was identified as Albanin G, also known as Kuwanon H
   or Moracenin A, another Diels-Alder adduct of a chalcone and prenylphenyl moiety by
   HRESIMS (m/z) [M-H] = 759; UV )max (MeOH): 265, 320 nm;               13
                                                                            C NMR (126 MHz,
   METHANOL-d 4) 6 ppm 16.35 (1 C) 16.47 (1 C) 20.96 (1 C) 21.79 (1 C) 23.32 (1 C)
   24.51 (1 C) 24.53 (1 C) 33.74 (1 C) 35.61 (1 C) 36.81 (1 C) 37.77 (1 C) 97.19 (1 C)
15 102.27 (1 C) 102.33 (1 C) 104.24 (1 C) 106.07 (1 C) 106.53 (2C) 107.34 (1 C) 112.37
   (1C) 113.94 (1 C) 114.35 (1 C) 120.17 (1 C) 121.60 (2 C) 122.31 (2 C) 123.25 (1 C)
   130.21 (2C) 131.33 (2 C) 132.96 (1 C) 156.37 (3 C) 157.07 (1 C) 159.59 (1 C) 160.37
   (1C) 161.23 (1 C) 161.77 (1 C) 161.96 (1 C) 162.21 (1 C) 182.45 (1 C) 208.82 (1 C).
                                                Oil   0
                                    Oil
                             110         1
                                10          Oil                 Albanin G
                                                      91

           Compound 3 (12.9 mg) was identified as Morusinol by ESIMS (m/z) [M
   H] =437; UV kmax (MeOH): 269, 317 nm; 'H NMR (500 MHz, METHANOL-d 4) 6
   ppm 1.08 (s, 6 H) 1.43 (s, 6 H) 1.60 (m, 2 H) 2.43 (m, 2 H) 5.59 (d, J=9.97 Hz, 1 H)
   6.16 (s, 1 H) 6.43 (m, 2 H) 6.59 (d, J=10.26 Hz, 1 H) 7.15 (d, J=9.09 Hz, 1 H);    3C
 5 NMR (126 MHz, METHANOL-d 4) 6 ppm 21.52 (t, I C) 28.54 (q, 2 C) 28.88 (q, 2 C)
   43.19 (t,1 C) 71.56 (s, 1 C) 79.28 (s, 1 C) 100.28 (d, 1 C) 102.35 (s, 1 C) 104.06 (d, 1
   C) 106.05 (s, 1 C) 108.26 (d, 1 C) 113.14 (s, 1 C) 115.89 (d, 1 C) 122.99 (s, 1 C) 128.36
   (d, 1 C) 132.37 (d, 1 C) 153.97 (s, 1 C) 157.96 (s, 1 C) 160.62 (s, 1 C) 162.13 (s, 1 C)
   162.88 (s, 1 C) 163.63 (s, 1 C) 184.09 (s, 1 C)
                                            OH
                                       HO
                                                   H3C  CH3
                                          o            OH
                                                    OH
                                 H30          OHH
                              HC
10                              H3 C 0         H            Morusinol
           Another best active pool (containing 538 mg of material) was fractionated on a
   preparative C18 column (30 cm x 250 cm) with a gradient mobile phase of water (A)
   and methanol (B) over 60 minutes at a flow rate of 20 mL/minute to generate
   16 fraction pools. A prenylphenylated Compound 4, called Morusin (80mg), also
15 known as Mulberrochromene was isolated. The structure and spectroscopy data were as
   follows: ESIMS (m/z) [M-H] 419; UV Xmax (MeOH): 269.4 nm; 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   METHANOL-d4) 6 ppm 1.41 (m, 9 H) 1.58 (s, 3 H) 3.10 (d, J=7.15 Hz, 2 H) 5.09 (m, 1
   H) 5.57 (d, J=10.49 Hz, 1 H) 6.14 (s, 1 H) 6.40 (m, 2 H) 6.59 (d, J=10.01 Hz, 1 H) 7.10
   (d, J=8.11 Hz, 1 H); 13C NMR (126 MHz, METHANOL-d4) 6 ppm 16.25 (q, 1 C)
20 23.48 (t, 1 C) 24.42 (q, 1 C) 26.99 (q, 2 C) 77.70 (s, 1 C) 98.69 (d, 1 C) 100.79 (s, 1 C)
   102.43 (d, 1 C) 104.51 (s, 1 C) 106.63 (d, 1 C) 111.67 (s, 1 C) 114.35 (d, 1 C) 120.63
   (s, 1 C) 121.30 (d, 1 C) 126.73 (d, 1 C) 131.02 (d, 1 C) 131.42 (s, 1 C) 152.36 (s, 1 C)
   156.51 (s, 1 C) 159.04 (s, 1 C) 160.61 (s, 1 C) 161.27 (s, 1 C) 162.14 (s, 1 C) 182.44 (s,
   I C).
                                                 92

                                      OH   0
                                 0         0
                                             HO       OH   Morusin
                                          EXAMPLE 4
              PREPARATION OF ORGANIC 70% ETOH EXTRACTS FROM MORUS ALBA
          2 kg of dried Morus alba roots and root barks were cut, crushed, and then
 5 extracted with approximately ten-fold volume (20 L) of 70% ethyl alcohol in water
   (v/v); the extraction was carried on at 80'C for 5 hrs. The ethanol solution was filtered
   to obtain the supernatant which was then concentrated with an evaporator under
   vacuum at 40'C. This extraction and concentration procedure was repeated two times.
   The extraction solutions were then combined together and concentrated until the
10 volume become 1/25 of the original volume. The concentrated solution was dried by
   vacuum freeze-drying to obtain 283.5 g of Morus alba 70% EtOH extract powder 1-01.
   The extraction yield was about 14.7% (w/w).
                                          EXAMPLE 5
            ISOLATION OF MULBERROSIDE      A FROM MORUS ALBA ETOH EXTRACTS
15          A 20 g amount of Morus alba 7 0% ethyl alcohol extract 1-01 from Example 4
   was loaded onto silica gel column and the column was eluted with a stepwise
   application of solvent mixture containing linear gradient of hexane:EtOAc (5:1 to 1:5)
   to give eight sub-fractions. Among the eight subfractions, the  8 th fraction was subjected
   to a RP-HPLC column (YMC-ODS) 5 ptm, C18 (250 x 30 mm) by injection onto a
20 preparative HPLC system (JAI, LC-9104, Japan) eluted with 15% Acetonitrile in H2 0
   in 16.2 min with UV wavelength 330 nm to afford Compound 5 (mulberroside A) (191
   mg).
                                                93

           Compound 5 (mulberroside A, C 2 6 H 3 2 0  14 ): APCI-MS (m/z) [M+H]' 569.58;
   UV ?,max (MeOH): 217.9, 325.6 nm; 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6) 6 ppm 6.34 (brs, 1
   H) 6.52 (dd, J=8.6, 2.4 Hz, 1 H) 6.54 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1 H) 6.57 (s, 1 H) 6.64 (s, 1 H) 6.94
   (d, J=16.4 Hz, 1 H) 7.22 (d, J=16.4 Hz, 1 H) 7.45 (d, J=8.6 Hz, 1 H);      13C NMR (125
 5 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 60.58 (t, G-6') 60.62 (d, G-6) 69.56 (d, G-4) 69.63 (d, G-4'
   73.20 (d, G-2') 73.29 (d, G-2) 76.61 (d, G-3') 76.61 (d, G-3) 77.00 (d, G-5') 77.04 (d,
   G-5) 100.39 (s, G-l') 100.76 (s, G-1) 102.65 (d, C-2') 103.86 (d, C-3) 105.35 (d, C-4'
   106.52 (d, C-5) 107.46 (d, C-6') 117.86 (s, C-1) 123.47 (d, C-6) 126.00 (d, a) 127.27 (d,
   b) 139.77 (s, C-l') 155.86 (s, C-2) 157.96 (s, C-4) 158.40 (s, C-5') 158.92 (s, C-3')
                                                               OH
                                                   4 0
                                                           / I
                            HO                       v    \ OH
                                                   HO
                           CH
                               0 0
                    HO
10                      HO                                        Mulberroside A
                                         EXAMPLE 6
        PREPARATION AND HPLC QUANTIFICATION OF EXTRACTS FROM MORUS PLANTS
           Morus samples were collected from different plant parts in different geological
   locations in S. Korea. The dry plant materials were ground into powder. Morus plant
15 powder (20 grams) was mixed with enough diatomaceous earth to fill up a 100 mL
   extraction cell, and extracted with 70% Ethanol/water by using ASE 350 Extractor
   (Extraction condition: Heat = minutes, Static = minutes, Flush = 80 volume, Purge
   900 seconds, Cycles = 3, Pressure = 1500 psi, Temperature = 60'C). After extraction,
   the solution was concentrated with an evaporator at 50"C to produce a solid extract.
20         The target components Mulberroside A, Oxyresveratrol, Kuwanon G, Albanin G
   and Morusin in the Morus extracts were quantified with a Luna C 18 reversed-phase
   column (Phenomenex, l0pm, 250mm x4.6mm) in a Hitachi HPLC system at 325 nm.
   The column was eluted with a binary gradient of 0.1% Formic acid in water (mobile
                                               94

   phase A) and acetonitrile (mobile phase B) at 1 ml/min flow rate and 30'C column
   temperature.
                    Table 1.        Gradient Table of HPLC Analytical Method
             Time (min)                    Mobile phase A                 Mobile phase B
                  0.0                              90                            10
                  8.0                              85                            15
                 35.0                              10                            90
                 35.1                               0                           100
                 38.0                               0                           100
                 38.1                              90                            10
                 45.0                              90                            10
            Reference Standard Material 72-1 (Morus 70% EtOH extract 1-01) produced
 5 according to Example 4 was utilized as the quantification standard. All extract samples
   were prepared in a concentration around 5 mg/ml in MeOH. After sonicating for
   approximately 15 minutes, the sample solution was cooled in a flask to room
   temperature and filtered through a 0.45 um nylon syringe filter and 20 pl of the sample
   was injected into the column.
10          Morus plants were collected from South Korea and China from different
   geological locations in both countries. The HPLC quantification of Mulberroside A,
   Oxyresveratrol, Kuwanon G, Albanin G and Morusin content in different species,
   different plant parts, collected from different locations, and at different age of plants,
   are listed in Tables 2 and 3. The actives have been qualified from Morus root bark, root
15 wood, fine roots, stem bark, branch, branch bark, branch wood, and twigs. There are
   small amounts of stilbene-type compounds - Mulberroside A and Oxyresveratrol
   detected in Morus leaf.
    Table 2.         Quantification of Active Compounds in Morus Collected from S. Korea.
   Morus        Plant                    Active Content in Extract (%)                  Extraction
    No.         Part      Mulberroside       Oxy-     Kuwanon Albanin        Morusin    Yield (%)
                                A         resveratrol     G            G
   MK-1      Root bark        10.93          0.07        1.66        0.82      0.55        23%
                                                  95

MK-2    Root bark        11.58         0.75        2.79          1.18  1.21     19%
MK-3    Root wood         6.40         2.26         0.58         0.20  0.24      8%
MK-4     Fine root        9.58         2.15        2.98          1.73  1.35     15%
MK-5    Stem bark         2.89         0.16         0.27         0.42  0.48     19%
MK-6    Root bark         0.36         0.16         0.23         0.00  0.09     18%
MK-7    Root bark        13.28         0.00         0.25         0.00  0.00     27%
MK-8    Root bark        11.71         0.08         0.63         0.25  0.15     21%
MK-9    Root bark        17.63         0.48        2.80          0.66  1.56     21%
MK1O    Root bark         0.28         0.19         1.70         0.06  0.05     16%
MK-ll      Leaves         0.54         0.06         0.00         0.00  0.00     23%
MK-12       Fruit         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00  0.00     35%
MK-13      Branch         3.31         4.07         0.14         0.00  0.18      9%
MK-14   Root bark        12.51         0.39         5.73         2.48  2.42     22%
MK-15   Root wood         1.58         2.52         0.36         0.14  0.12      7%
MK-16      Branch        22.46         0.09         0.58         0.00  0.57     15%
            bark
MK-17      Branch         4.95          1.78        0.17         0.00  0.00      5%
            wood
MK-18   Root bark         0.41         0.28         3.36         0.11  0.18     14%
  Table 3.        Quantification of Active Compounds in Morus Collected from China
Morus       Plant                   Active Content in Extract ()              Extraction
 No.        Part     Mulberroside      Oxy-     Kuwanon Albanin       Morusin Yield (%)
                           A        resveratrol      G             G
MC-1    Root bark         1.74         0.10         7.29         6.31  5.38     17%
MC-2    Root bark         3.42         0.37        4.69          1.00  1.97     18%
MC-3    Root bark         0.04         0.05         0.34         0.00  0.12      8%
MC-4    Root bark         0.11         0.60         0.39         0.00  0.14      8%
MC-5    Root bark         0.24         0.22         0.73         0.00  0.18      9%
MC-6    Root bark        14.07         0.36        2.06          1.29  1.42     20%
MC-7    Root bark         9.96          1.01       2.51          0.73  0.78     12%
MC-8    Root bark         0.21         2.64         0.06         0.46  1.40     12%
MC-9    Root bark         5.85          1.44        5.11         2.41  8.70     19%
MC-10   Root bark         2.81         0.76        11.43         4.21  3.82     11%
MC-11   Root bark         0.03         0.01         0.40         0.75  0.10     11%
MC-12       Fruit         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00  0.00     74%
MC-13      Leaves         0.00         0.00         0.13         0.00  0.00     20%
                                             96

   Morus        Plant                   Active Content in Extract (%)                  Extraction
     No.        Part     Mulberroside       Oxy-      Kuwanon Albanin         Morusin  Yield (%)
                               A         resveratrol      G          G
   MC-14       Twigs          2.67          0.90        0.06        0.17       0.03        4%
                                           EXAMPLE 7
                HPLC QUANTIFICATION OF EXTRACTS FROM MORUS RooT BARK
            Ethanol extracts of Morus root barks were obtained from different geological
    locations in China. The contents of four active components - Mulberroside A,
 5  Kuwanon G, Albanin G and Morusin - in those Morus extracts were quantified with the
    HPLC method described in Example 6. As shown in the Table 4, two Morus extracts
    (ME-10 and ME-12) contained none of the four active compounds. Three Morus
    extracts (ME-6, ME-7 and ME-8) contained no Mulberroside A and very small amounts
    of prenylated flavonoids (less than 4% as a total of the three compounds present).
10  Another four Morus extracts (ME-3, ME-4, ME-5, and ME-14) contained small
    amounts of prenylated flavonoids (less than 2% as a total of the three compounds
    present) and variable amount of Mulberroside A. This Example clearly demonstrates
    the lack of enrichment and standardization of stilbene and prenylated flavonoids in
    regular Morus root bark extracts.
15     Table 4.       Quantification of Active Compounds in Morus Extracts from China
          Morus                          Active Content in Extract (%)
          Extract       Mulberroside A           Kuwanon G           Albanin G       Morusin
           ME-1                20.4                  2.17                0.77         1.31
           ME-2               22.26                  2.57                0.83         1.49
           ME-3               10.86                  0.42                0.17         0.22
           ME-4                1.07                  0.22                0.13         0.13
           ME-5                 2.3                  0.54                0.27         0.23
           ME-6                  0                   0.45                0.15         0.95
           ME-7                  0                   0.47                0.16         0.99
           ME-8                  0                   1.32                0.35         2.08
                                                 97

          Morus                         Active Content in Extract (%)
         Extract         Mulberroside A         Kuwanon G           Albanin G      Morusin
          ME-9                 6.7                   2.29              0.99          0.91
          ME-10                 0                      0                 0             0
          ME-11               6.13                   2.15              1.02          0.93
          ME-12                 0                      0                 0             0
          ME-13                 8                     2.8              1.01          1.06
          ME-14               6.49                   0.85              0.22          0.21
                                          EXAMPLE 8
                     PREPARATION OF MORUSALBA        70% ETOH EXTRACT 10
            DriedMorus alba roots and root barks (93.3 kg) were cut, crushed, and then
   extracted with approximately seven-fold volume (700 L) of 70% ethyl alcohol in water
 5 (v/v); the extraction was carried out at 1000 C for 4 hrs. The ethanol solution was
   filtered to obtain the supernatant, which was then concentrated with an evaporator
   under vacuum at 40'C. This extraction and concentration procedure was repeated two
   times. The extraction solutions were then combined together and concentrated until the
   volume become 1/25 of the original volume. The concentrated solution was dried by
10 vacuum freeze-drying to obtain 18.3 kg of Morus alba 70% EtOH extract powder 10.
   The extraction yield was about 19.6% (w/w). The major active component content is
   listed in Table 5 of Example 12.
                                          EXAMPLE 9
                        PREPARATION OF MORUSALBA       ETOAc FRACTION 11
15          Morus alba EtOH extract produced according to Example 8 was extracted with
   approximately two-fold volume of ethyl alcohol (EP grade, Ducksan Chemical, Korea)
   from 4 kg of dried Morus alba root bark yielded 570 g of Morus alba EtOH extract
   powder. The EtOH extract was partitioned with hexane and water followed by
   extraction with ethyl acetate. Extraction was performed by homogenization of the
                                                98

   extraction solution at 15,000 rpm for five minutes with homogenizer (IKA T25D,
   Germany). The well homogenized extraction solution was then separated by centrifuge
   (Beckman J-20XP, Germany) at 3,000 rpm (rotor# JLA 8.1000) for five minutes.
   Corresponding n-hexane soluble and water soluble extracts were prepared from 570 g
 5 of the crude Morus alba EtOH powder. This resulted in production of 80.5 g of the n
   hexane soluble extract and 156 g of the water-soluble extract of Morus alba. After
   solvent partition with EtOAc, the upper layer (EtOAc soluble layer) was filtered by
   filter paper (Hyundai Micro, No. 20, Korea) and the EtOAc solution was collected. The
   residue (precipitate material) collected from the centrifugation was re-extracted with
10 two-fold volume (300 L) of ethyl acetate (EP grade, Ducksan Chemical, Korea). The
   re-extracted solution was agitated at 150 rpm for 2 hours. The resulting mixture was
   then filtered (Hyundai Micro, No. 20, Korea) to obtain an additional EtOAc extract
   solution. The above-described procedure was repeated two times. The three resulting
   EtOAc extract solutions were combined and concentrated by evaporator at 40'C to
15 obtain the final EtOAc extract 11. The final amount of Morus alba EtOAc fraction 11,
   obtained from this process was 327 g. The major active component content is provided
   in Table 5 (Example 12).
                                          EXAMPLE 10
               PREPARATION OF MORUSALBA 70% ETOH PRECIPITATE EXTRACT              12
20          Morus alba EtOH precipitate extract 12 was produced by follows;
   634 kilograms (KG) of dried Morus alba roots and root barks were cut, crushed and
   extracted with approximately 7 fold volume (3600 liters (L)) of 70% ethyl alcohol in
   water (v/v); the extraction solvent was treated at 80'C, for 4 hrs; the residue was filtered
   to obtain the supernatant which was then concentrated with an evaporator at 40'C. The
25 above-described procedure was repeated three times. The extraction solutions were
   then concentrated until the volume become about 1/30 the original starting volumes.
   Then the concentrated solutions were combined to evaporate again in order to reduce
   volume of concentrated solution until 1/90 volume of the original extraction solution.
   The concentrated solution was rested at room temperature for 24 hours (hr) to allow
                                                99

   separation into two layers (supernatant and precipitate-layer). The precipitate was
   filtered and dried by vacuum freeze-drying to obtain M. alba 70% EtOH precipitate
   powder. A total of 24 kg of the resulting product was obtained from 634 kg of raw
   plant material. The extraction yield was about 3 .7 9 % (w/w). The major active
 5 component content is listed in Table 5 (Example 12).
                                          EXAMPLE 11
        PREPARATION OF MORUSALBA 70% ETOH EXTRACT              (13-1), PRECIPITATE (13-2),
                              AND SUPERNATANT (13-3) EXTRACTS
            Morus alba EtOH precipitate extract was produced as follows: 465 kg of dried
10 Morus alba roots and root bark were cut, crushed, and extracted with approximately
   10-fold volume (4500 L) of 70% ethyl alcohol in water (v/v); the extraction solvent was
   treated at 80'C for 4 hrs; the residue was filtered to obtain the supernatant which was
   concentrated with an evaporator at 40'C. Above-described procedure was repeated
   three times. The extraction solutions were concentrated until the volume become 1/30
15 the original volume. The concentrated solutions were then combined and evaporated
   again to reduce the volume of the concentrated solution until 1/90 volume of the
   original extraction solution was achieved. The concentrated solution was left at room
   temperature for 24 hr to allow separation into a supernatant and precipitate layer. The
   precipitate layer was then dried by vacuum to obtain 12 kg of Morus alba 70% EtOH
20 precipitate powder 13-2. The precipitate yield from Morus root barks was about 2.6%
   (w/w). The supernatant layer was dried by vacuum drying to obtain 24 kg Morus alba
   70% EtOH supernatant powder 13-3. The extraction yield for the supernatant 13-3 was
   about 5.2%.
            Morus alba 70% EtOH combination extract (13-1) was obtained by blending
25 2 kg of precipitate (13-2) and 4 kg of supernatant (13-3)). The major active component
   content in both Morus alba EtOH extract 13-1, precipitate 13-2 and supernatant 13-3 is
   listed in Table 5 (Example 12).
                                               100

                                             EXAMPLE 12
       HPLC QUANTIFICATION OF ACTIVE CONTENT IN DIFFERENT MOR USALBA EXTRACTS
            The detailed HPLC quantification method for Mulberroside A, Oxyresveratrol,
    Kuwanon G, Albanin G and Morusin content was described in Example 6. Table 5 lists
 5  the active contents in different Morus root bark extracts as prepared in the Examples 8,
    9, 10 and 11.
                   Table 5.         Quantification of Active Compounds in Morus Extracts
                     Stilbene in Extract (%)                Prenylated Flavonoid in Extract (%)
   MorusToaTtl
   Eracts Mulberroside           Oxy       Stilbenes   Kuwanon    Albanin    Morusin     Prenylated
                   A         resveratrol                  G           G                  Flavonoids
      10                                                 2.88        1.64
      11          1.55           0.33         1.89       9.31        6.74      6.84         22.89
      12          1.27            0           1.27       5.30       4.28       4.25          13.83
     13-1         7.31           0.26         7.57       3.12        1.71      2.01          6.84
     13-2         0.76            0           0.76       5.51        3.98      4.48          13.97
     13-3         7.50            0           7.50       1.27        0.36      0.48          2.11
                                             EXAMPLE 13
                  PREPARATION OF ORGANIC EXTRACTS FROM CURCUMA LONGA
10          A total of 20 grams of dried rhizome powder of Curcuma longa were loaded
    into two 100 ml stainless steel tube and extracted twice with an organic solvent mixture
    (methylene chloride/methanol in a ratio of 1:1) using an ASE 300 automatic extractor at
    80'C and under 1,500 psi of pressure. The extract solution was filtered, collected, and
    evaporated with a rotary evaporator to give crude organic extract (OE) (6.04 g, 30.2%
15  yield).
                                                   101

                                        EXAMPLE 14
      HIGH THROUGHPUT PURIFICATION       (HTP) OF CURCUMA LONGA ORGANIC EXTRACTS
           The Curcuma longa organic extract (OE, 400 mg) as described in Example 13
   was loaded onto a pre-packed flash column (2 cm ID x 8.2 cm, 25ml, 10 g silica gel),
 5 eluted using a Hitachi high throughput purification (HTP) system with an unique
   gradient mobile phase of (A) 50:50 EtOAc:hexanes and (B) methanol from 100% A to
   100% B in 30 minutes at a flow rate of 5 mL/min. A total of 88 fractions were collected
   in a 96-deep-well plate at 1.9 mL per well using a Gilson fraction collector. The sample
   plate was dried under low vacuum and centrifugation, and then the dried samples were
10 resuspended in 1.5 mL dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) per well. A portion (100 pL) from
   each well was taken and combined (based on UV trace) for the BKB 1 inhibition assay.
                                        EXAMPLE 15
            BRADYKININ    B 1 RADIOLIGAND BINDING ASSAY OF CURCUMA EXTRACTS
                                   AND FRACTIONS THEREOF
15         Bradykinin B 1 (BKB 1) radioligand binding assay was conducted to determine
   the inhibition activity of Curcuma longa OE and extract fractions on BKB 1 binding to
   BKB1 receptor (BKB1R). Membranes from human IMR-90 lung fibroblasts,
   stimulated with IL-1P in modified HEPES buffer (PH=7.4), were incubated with a test
   sample in the presence of 0.9 nM [3H](Des-ArgI )-Kallidin for 60 minutes at room
20 temperature. After incubation, membranes were filtered and washed five times with
   modified DPBS buffer (pH=7.4). Samples were scintillation counted to determine the
   amount of specifically bound to the BKB 1 receptor containing membrane.
           The Curcuma longa OE was tested at a concentration of 166 pg/mL and IC5 0
   values were determined using the same method with serial dilutions at concentrations
25 ranging from 400 pg/mL and 5 ng/mL to obtain a dose-response curve. Data showing
   inhibition of BKB1 binding to BKB1R by Curcuma longa OE extracts is provided in
   Table 6.
                                              102

          Table 6.        Inhibition of BKBlReceptor Binding by Curcuma longa OE
              Sample        BKB1(166 pg/ml) POC (%)           BKB1 IC5 o (pg/mL)
            OE extract                  -0.14                         9.6
           Curcuma longa OE showed strong inhibition of BKB 1 binding with an IC 50 of
   about 9.6 pg/mL. Furthermore, HTP fractions of the Curcuma longa OE were
   examined in the BKB1 binding assay (data not shown). The activity profile of the HTP
 5 fractions indicates that fractions 11-22, 34, and 38 had the most potent BKB1 receptor
   binding inhibition, with a mean percentage of control (POC) below 10%.
   Curcuminoids were found to be the major active compounds associated with the activity
   of HTP fractions 11-22.
                                          EXAMPLE 16
10             BKB 1 AND BKB2R BINDING ACTIVITY OF CURCUMA COMPOUNDS
           BKB1 binding assay, as described in Example 15, was used to test curcumin
   compound isolated from a Curcuma longa extract (Compound 11), as well as
   commercially available curcumin purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (C1386). Curcumin
   was tested at final concentrations ranging from 200 pM to 5 nM. Binding curves were
15 plotted by non-linear regression fit (using GraphPad Prizm software). Ki values were
   computed using Cheng-Prusoff algorithm. In addition, inhibition of BKB2 receptor
   binding activity by curcumin was examined with methods similar to those described in
   Example 15 for the BKB1 receptor with some modifications. Bradykinin Radioligand
   Binding Assay (BKB2) was conducted using a standard assay under the following
20 conditions:
       1. Composition of Assay Buffer: 24 mM TES, pH 6.8, 1 mM 1.10-Phenanthrioline,
           0.3% BSA.
       2. Source of BKb2R: CHO-KI cells expressing recombinant human BKb2R
       3.  Ligand: [ 3H]-Bradykinin: 0.2 nM.
25     4. Incubation time: 90 min RT.
       5.  Reading: TopCount.
                                                103

           Commercial curcumin (Sigma, C1386) was tested at concentrations ranging
   from 200 pM to 5 nM. Binding curves for commercial curcumin does not conform to
   mass action law for competitive inhibitor. Ki was manually calculated by using Cheng
   Prusoff equation. The inhibition activity for BKB 1 and BKB2 by curcumin is provided
 5 in Table 7.
                  Table 7.        Inhibition of BKB1 and BKB2 by Curcumin
            Compound             BKB1 Ki (pg/ml)              BKB2 Ki (pg/ml)
             Curcumin                  2.173                          58
           The data indicate that curcumin is a selective BKB 1 antagonist since it shows
   much stronger inhibition of BKB1 binding activity as compared to BKB2 binding.
                                          EXAMPLE 17
10              PREPARATION OF CURCUMA LONGA ETHYL ALCOHOL EXTRACT 19
           Curcuma EtOH extract was produced as follows: 20 kg of dried Curcuma longa
   rhizomes (roots) were pulverized, and extracted with approximately 4-fold volume
   (80 L) of 100% ethyl alcohol and the extraction solvent held at 80-85'C for 30 hrs. The
   residue was filtered to obtain a supernatant that was concentrated with an evaporator at
15 85-90'C. The extraction solutions were then concentrated until the volume was 1/25 of
   the original volume. The concentrated solution was dried by spray dry process
   (temperature I/P 200'C and O/P 95'C) to obtain about 1 kg of 25% Curcuma in EtOH
   extract powder 19 with reddish-orange color. The extraction yield was about 5%
   (w/w).
20                                        EXAMPLE 18
                QUANTIFICATION OF CURCUMIN IN CURCUMA RHIZOME EXTRACT
           The following analytical method was used to determine the amount of Curcumin
   in the Curcuma longa rhizome extracts. An Agilent HPLC/PDA system was used with
   a C18 reversed-phase column (Phenomenex, USA, Luna 5 um, 250 mm x 4.6 mm) for
                                                104

   detection and quantitation of Curcumin and minor components. A binary 0.1% acetic
   acid in purified water (mobile phase A) and acetonitrile (mobile phase B) gradient was
   used for elution of Curcumin components as described in Table 7. The flow rate was
   set to 1 ml/min passing through the Luna C18 column with a column temperature of
 5 35'C. The UV detector was set to read absorbance at 407 nm.
                    Table 7        Curcumin HPLC Gradient Elution Scheme
            Time (min)                 Mobile phase A%              Mobile phase B%
                  0                             55                           45
                10.0                            55                           45
                10.1                             10                          90
                25.0                             10                          90
                25.1                            55                           45
                30.0                            55                           45
            The quantification standard - Curcumin was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich Co.
   The highest concentration level of Curcumin was 0.05mg/ml and diluted to L5 from Li
   (0.0031 mg/ml) using methanol. Concentration of Curcuma longa rhizome extract
10 samples were adjusted to about 1 mg/ml in methanol in a volumetric flask and sonicated
   until dissolved (approximately 20 minutes), then cooled to room temperature, mixed
   well and filtered through a 0.45 tm nylon syringe filter. Then 10 pl of sample was
   quantified by HPLC, which results for Curcuma longa rhizome extract are provided in
   Table 8.
15          Table 8         HPLC Quantification of Curcuma longa Rhizome Extract
               Sample                Curcumin %              Curcuminoids (total) %
                 110                      16.34                       30.04
                 210                      14.71                       27.93
                 310                      13.08                       26.53
                                                105

                                          EXAMPLE 19
                     PREPARATION OF GAMBIR (UNCAPJA GAMBIR) EXTRACT        21
            Uncariagambir water extract was produced as follows. 100 kg of dried leaves
   of Uncariagambir was cut, crushed, and extracted with 15-fold volume (1500 L) of
 5 70 % ethyl alcohol and the extraction solvent treated at 80'C for 7 hrs. The resulting
   residue was filtered to obtain a supernatant. The above-described procedure was
   repeated for second time. The extraction supernatant solutions were combined together
   and concentrated with an evaporator at 46'C under vacuum condition until the volume
   became 1 / 3 0th of the original volume. The concentrated solution was evaporated further
10 to reduce volume of concentrated solution until 1/90 volume of the original solution.
   The resulting concentrated solution was then rested at room temperature for 24 hrs to
   allow precipitate to form in the concentrated solution. The precipitate was filtered and
   dried under vacuum to obtain precipitate powder as Uncariagambir extract powder 21.
   The yield from 100 kg of dried leaves of Uncaria gambir was about 6 kg of extract
15 powder, so the extraction yield was about 6% (w/w).
                                          EXAMPLE 20
                      HPLC QUANTIFICATION OF UNCARIA GAMBIR EXTRACTS
           The following analytical method was used to determine the amount of catechin
   in the Uncariagambir leaf extracts. An Agilent HPLC/PDA system with a C 18
20 reversed-phase column (Phenomenex, USA, Luna 5 um, 250 mm x 4.6 mm) was used
   for the detection and quantitation of catechin compound in Gambir extracts. A binary
   column gradient was used for elution of material from the column. Mobile Phase A:
   0.l1% phosphoric acid in purified water, and Mobile Phase B: acetonitrile gradient was
   used for elution (Table 9). The flow rate was set to 1.0 ml/min passing through the
25 Luna C18 column with a column temperature of 35'C. The UV detector was set to
   record absorbance at 275 nm.
                                               106

                    Table 9       Gradient Table of HPLC Analytical Method
            Time (min)                  Mobile Phase A                Mobile Phase B
                 0.0                          85.0                          15.0
                 7.0                          85.0                          15.0
                12.0                           10.0                         90.0
                16.5                           10.0                         90.0
                16.6                          85.0                          15.0
                24.0                          85.0                          15.0
            Pure catechin reference sample was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich Co. The
   reference sample was dissolved in MeOH:0.1% H 3 PO 4 (1:1). Highest level
   concentration range of catechin was 0.5 mg/ml and diluted to L5 from Li
 5 (0.003 mg/ml) using 50% methanol in 0.1% H 3 P0 4. Concentration of the Gambir
   extract samples were adjusted to 2 mg/ml in 50% methanol in 0.1% H 3 PO 4 in a
   volumetric flask and sonicated until dissolved (approximately 10 minutes), and then
   cooled to room temperature, mixed well and filtered through a 0.45 p.m nylon syringe
   filter. HPLC analysis was performed by injecting a 20 pl sample into the HPLC.
10                   Table 10       HPLC Quantification of Gambir Extract
                          Sample                          Catechin %
                            210                                20.0
                            212                                18.5
                                         EXAMPLE 21
                   PREPARATION OF A CA CIA CA TECH 650% CATECHIN EXTRACT
           Acacia catechu 65% catechin extract was produced as follows: 500kg of Acacia
   catechu (KATHA) was put into 750L of 50% ethyl alcohol and stirred at room
15 temperature for 90 min. After 500L of ethyl acetate was put into the homogenized
   KATHA slurry, it was stirred smoothly for 30min. The slurry was allowed to separate
   into two layers for 1 hr. The ethyl acetate layer was moved into a new bottle, and the
   partition was repeated with the water layer. Both the 1st and 2nd ethyl acetate layers
                                               107

   were combined and concentrated at 60-62'C until TDS 30%, and then spray dried
   (temp. I/P 190'C - O/P 90'C). A total of 72.5kg Acacia catechu extract was obtained
   from 500kg of raw material with catechin and epicatechin total content at not less than
   65%. The extraction yield was 14.5% (w/w).
 5                                        EXAMPLE 22
                    Ex VIvo GLYCOSAMINOGLYCANS (GAG) RELEASE ASSAY
            Articular cartilage from hock joints of rabbits (2.5 kg body weight) was
   removed immediately after each animal was sacrificed and articular cartilage explants
   were obtained by following the method described by Sandy et al. (Biochem. Biophy
10 Acta 543:36, 1978). Briefly, after the articular surfaces were surgically exposed under
   sterile conditions, approximately 200-220 mg articular surfaces per joint were dissected
   and submerged into complete medium (DMEM, supplemented with heat inactivated 5%
   FBS; penicillin 100 U/ml; streptomycin 100 ug/ml). They were then rinsed several
   times with the complete medium and incubated for 1 to 2 days at 37'C in a humidified
15 5% C0 2/95% air incubator for stabilization. The complete medium was replaced with a
   basal medium (DMEM, supplemented with heat-inactivated 1% FBS, 10 mM HEPES,
   and penicillin 100 U/ml streptomycin 100 tg/ml). Approximately 30 mg cartilage
   pieces (2x3x0.35 mn/piece) were placed in 24-well plates and treated with given
   concentrations of test agents. After pretreatment for 1 h, 5 ng/ml of rhIL- 1u. was added
20 to the culture medium and further incubated at 37'C in a humidified 5% C0 2/95% air
   incubator. The culture medium was collected 24 h later and stored at -20'C until assay.
            The amount of sulphated GAGs (e.g., released from proteoglycans) in the
   medium at the end of the reaction reflects the amount of articular cartilage degradation,
   which was determined using the commercially available 1,9-dimethy-methylene blue
25 method according to the instructions of the manufacturer (Blyscan       assay, Accurate
   Chemical and Scientific Corp., Westbury, New York).
                                                108

                                         EXAMPLE 23
          EFFECT OF PURIFIED COMPOUNDS FROM MORUS ON Ex VIvo            GAG RELEASE
           Rabbit cartilage explants were cultured with rhIL- 1 a (5 ng/ml) in the absence or
   presence of purified Morus compounds isolated according to Example 3 to examine the
 5 protective effects on proteoglycan (PG) degradation. Purified compound inhibited
   rhIL- 1a-mediated degradation of PG in a concentration dependent manner. Especially,
   Mulberroside A, Oxyresveratrol and Morusin showed a strong inhibitory effect when
   compared with diclofenac treated group.
                 Table 12.      Effect of Morus Compounds on Ex Vivo GAG Release
                             Sample               Dose             % GAG release
                             Normal                 --                   36.6
                              IL-la              5 ng/ml                 100
                           Diclofenac          300 ptg/ml                34.6
                                                25 Rg/ml                 73.1
                         Mulberoside A          50 ptg/ml                75.8
                                               100 pg/ml                 70.5
                                                25 pg/ml                 56.6
                          Kuwanon G             50 pLg/ml                 48
                                               100 Rg/ml                 44.4
                         Oxyresveratrol         25 pg/ml                 59.8
                                                25 Rg/ml                 48.4
                            Morusin             50 pLg/ml                49.9
                                                100 pg/ml                33.6
10                                       EXAMPLE 24
                       MORUS EXTRACT REDUCES Ex        VIvo GAG RELEASE
           Rabbit cartilage explants were cultured with rhIL- 1 a (5 ng/ml) in the absence or
   presence of Morus extracts to examine the protective effects on PG degradation. Morus
   extracts inhibited rhIL- 1a-mediated degradation of PG in a concentration dependent
15 manner. All samples showed a strong effect as compared to that of IL-la treated group.
                                              109

               Table 13.       Effect of Morus Extracts on Ex Vivo GAG Release
                   Sample                Dose                   %GAG release
                   Normal                  /                         36.6
                    IL-la               5 ng/ml                      100
                  Diclofenac           300 [Lg/ml                    34.6
                                       100 tg/ml                     50.2
                     13-1
                                       200 ig/ml                     41.9
                                                                     49.9
                      11               100 pLg/ml
                                       200 ptg/mIl                   37.3
                                       100 pg/ml                    67.20
                     13-3
                                       200 pg/ml                     61.3
                                          EXAMPLE 25
                 PREPARATION OF ETHANOL EXTRACTS FROM MENTHA PIPERITA
           Peppermint (Menthapiperita) 90% EtOH extract (lot# RM604-13002) was
 5 produced as follows: 73.4 kg of dried Mentha piperita was cut, crushed, and extracted
   with a 15-fold volume (1100 L) of 90% ethyl alcohol (v/v) at 85'C for 3 hrs. The
   resulting residue was filtered to obtain a supernatant that was concentrated with a
   vacuum evaporator at 40'C. The resulting residue was extracted a second time with
   13-fold volume (950 L) of 90% ethyl alcohol (v/v) at 40'C for 1 hrs and filtered to
10 obtain a second supernatant which was concentrated with a vacuum evaporator at 40'C.
   The resulting concentrated cake was dried under vacuum to obtain 19.3 kg of
   Peppermint 90% EtOH extract powder designated as Extract 25 . The extraction yield
   was 25.3% (w/w).
                                          EXAMPLE 26
15  PREPARATION OF METHANOL AND OTHER ORAGNIC EXTRACTS FROM MENTHA PIPERITA
           Dried ground peppermint leaf powder (Menthapiperita)(21.7 g) loaded into
   two 100 ml stainless steel tubes and extracted twice with an organic solvent mixture
   (methanol) using an ASE 300 automatic extractor at 80 0 C under a pressure of 1,500 psi.
                                                110

   The extract solution was automatically filtered, collected, and evaporated with a rotary
   evaporator to give a crude organic extract (ME 26-1) (4.48 g, 20.64% yield).
           Alternatively, 252.3 g of dried ground leaf powder of Mentha piperitawas
   extracted with methanol three times by refluxing one hour each time. The organic
 5 solution was combined and evaporated under vacuum to provide methanol extract (ME
   26-2) 40.88 g with a yield of 16.20%.
           Similar results were obtained using the same procedure, but with the organic
   solvent being replaced with methanol or ethanol to provide a methanol extract (ME) or
   ethanol extract (EE), Ethanol:H 20 (7:3) extracts, Ethanol:H 20 (1:1) extracts,
10 Ethanol:H 20 (3:7) extracts and water extracts respectively.
                                         EXAMPLE 27
           EFFECT OF CURCUMA AND UNCARIA EXTRACTS ON Ex VIvo            GAG  RELEASE
           Rabbit cartilage explants were cultured with rhIL- 1 a (5 ng/ml) in the absence or
   presence of Curcuma extract from Example 17 or Uncariaextract from Example 19 to
15 examine the protective effect on PG degradation. Curcuma extract 19 decreased rhIL
   1a-mediated degradation of PG in a concentration dependent manner, while Uncaria
   extract 21 showed a weak protective effect on PG degradation.
       Table 14.      Effect of Curcuma and Gambir Extracts on Ex Vivo GAG Release
                    Sample                 Dose              % GAG release
                      (-)                                            39.0
                     IL-la                5 ng/ml                   100.0
                  Diclofenac            300 pg/nl                    45.6
                                         30 tg/ml                    88.9
                                         50 ig/ml                    65.0
                       19
                                        66.7 ug/ml                   59.2
                  (Curcuma)
                                        100 pg/ml                    38.2
                                        300 ug/ml                    50.4
                                        66.7 pg/nl                   97.7
                      21
                                         80 gg/ml                    81.0
                   (Gambir)
                                        100 pg/ml                    78.0
                                               111

                   Sample                 Dose               % GAG release
                                        120 .tg/ml                   86.4
                                        200 pg/ml                    88.4
                                        300 ug/ml                    88.4
                                         EXAMPLE 28
                 EFFECT OF PEPPERMINT EXTRACT ON Ex VIvo         GAG RELEASE
           Rabbit cartilage explants were cultured with rhIL- I a (5 ng/ml) in the absence or
   presence of Peppermint extract from Examples 25 and 26 to examine the protective
 5 effects on PG degradation.
            Table 15.       Effect of Peppermint Extracts on Ex Vivo GAG Release
                   Sample                  Dose               % GAG release
                   Normal                                              34.5
                    IL-la                 5 ng/ml                      100
                  Diclofenac             300 pg/ml                    22.6
                                         150 pg/ml                    110.9
                    191-8                250 pg/ml                     84.1
                                         500 pg/nl                     73.0
                                         150 pg/ml                     91.5
                    622-9                250 pg/ml                     79.2
                                         500 tg/ml                     68.7
           Peppermint extract inhibited rhIL- Ia-mediated degradation of PG in a
   concentration dependent manner, although the effect of Peppermint extracts on PG
   degradation were weaker than the diclofenac treated group.
10
                                         EXAMPLE 29
    EFFECT OF CURCUMA LONGA (C):MoRUS (M) COMPOSITIONS ON Ex VIvo             GAG RELEASE
           Rabbit cartilage explants were cultured for 24 hr with rhIL- 1a (5 ng/ml) in the
   absence or presence of a mixture of Curcuma and Morus extracts to examine the
                                               112

  protective effects on PG degradation. The plant extracts from Morus and Curcuma
  were produced according Examples 8 and 17, respectively. Curcuma and Morus
  extracts were combined at different ratios, including 4:1, 2:1, 1:1, 1:2 and 1:4,
  respectively. The compositions were tested at four doses - 50, 100, 200 and 300 tg/ml.
5 As shown in Table 17, all compositions of plant extracts prevented rhIL-l a mediated
  degradation of articular cartilage in a concentration dependent manner.
     Table 17.       Effect of Morus / Curcuma Compositions on Ex Vivo GAG Release
                         Sample        Dose (pg/ml)    % GAG release
                            (-)-                              51.9
                           IL-la           0.005             100.0
                        Diclofenac          300               36.8
                                             50               80.5
                                            100               58.1
                          4C:1M
                                            200              49.1
                                            300               61.8
                                             50               82.0
                                            100               57.5
                          2C:1M
                                            200              47.4
                                            300               68.4
                                             50               88.7
                                            100               62.0
                          1C:1M
                                            200               54.2
                                            300               59.7
                                             50               81.6
                                            100               59.5
                          1C:2M
                                            200               58.0
                                            300               57.2
                                             50               62.6
                          1C:4M             100               63.3
                                            200               56.7
                                               113

                          Sample       Dose (pg/ml)     % GAG release
                                            300                32.7
                                         EXAMPLE 30
              EVALUATION OF CURCUMA (C):MORUS (M) COMPOSITION SYNERGY
                                  ON Ex   VIvo GAG RELEASE
           Rabbit cartilage explants were cultured for 24 hr with rhIL- 1a (5 ng/ml) in the
 5 absence or presence of compositions of Curcuma extract, Morus extract, or a mixture
   thereof to examine the presence of a protective effect on PG degradation. The plant
   extracts from Morus and Curcuma were produced according Examples 8 and 17,
   respectively. Curcuma and Morus extracts were combined at different ratios, including
   1:2 and 1:4. The compositions were tested at two doses - 200 and 300 pg/ml, or at one
10 dose - 75 pg/ml to examine whether the combined extracts worked synergistically or
   additively. The individual extract compositions were tested at concentrations that were
   in proportion to the weight content of those extracts in the mixed composition.
         Table 18.       Synergistic Effect of C:M Composition versus C or M Alone
    Cmpsn      pg/ml     Inhibition   Cmpsn       pg/ml     Inhibition           Remark
     1C:4M       200        85.1      1C:4M        300          97.8         Theoretical value
     1C:4M       200        87.8      1C:4M        300          100         Experimental result
       C          40        49.1         C          60          72.6            Individual
       M         160        70.7         M         240           92             Individual
     1C:2M       200        81.7      1C:2M        300          95.6         Theoretical value
     1C:2M       200        95.8      1C:2M        300          100         Experimental result
       C        66.7        59.9         C         100           85             Individual
       M        133.3       54.3         M         200          70.6            Individual
     1C:1M        75         53                                              Theoretical value
                                               114

    Cmpsn       pg/ml    Inhibition   Cmpsn       pg/ml    Inhibition            Remark
     1C:1M        75        57.5                                            Experimental result
       C         37.5        33                                                 Individual
       M         37.5       29.9                                                Individual
           Compositions of Curcuma and Morus extracts interfered with the rhIL- I a
   mediated degradation of PG in a concentration dependent and synergistic manner.
   Especially, compositions 1C:4M (5 wt% curcuminoids, 2.4 wt% prenylated flavonoids,
   2.4 wt% stilbenes) and 1C:2M (8.3 wt% curcuminoids, 2 wt% prenylated flavonoids,
 5 2 wt% stilbenes) showed a synergistic effect at 200 and 300 pg/ml. Composition
   IC: IM (12.5 wt% curcuminoids, 1.5 wt% prenylated flavonoids, 1.5 wt% stilbenes)
   also showed a synergistic effect at 75 ptg/ml. Synergy values were calculated by using
   the COLBY formular (Colby, Weeds 15:20, 1967).
                                         EXAMPLE 31
10   EFFECT OF   CURCUMA (C):MoRus (M):N-ACETYL GLUCOSAMIN (NAG) COMPOSITIONS
                                  ON Ex   VIvo GAG RELEASE
           Rabbit cartilage explants were cultured for 24 hr with rhIL- 1a (5 ng/ml) in
   absence or presence of composition of Curcuma and Morus extract to examine the
   protective effects on PG degradation. The plant extracts from Morus and Curcuma
15 were produced according to Examples 8 and 17, respectively. Curcuma and Morus
   extracts were combined with N-Acetyl Glucosamine (NAG) at a ratio IC: 1M:2NAG.
   The compositions were tested at four doses-50, 100, 200 and 300 tg/ml. The individual
   extracts in the compositions were tested at concentrations that were in proportions of
   the weight contents of those extracts in the compositions. Synergy values were
20 calculated by using the Colby formular (Colby, Weeds 15:20, 1967).
                                               115

              Table 19.      Effect of Curcuma,Morus, and NAG Compositions
              Sample                        Dose                   % GAG release
              Normal                                                      40.7
                IL-la                      5 ng/ml                        100.0
             Diclofenac                  300 tg/ml                        30.1
                                          50 ptg/ml                       83.2
                                         100 pg/ml                        59.7
            1C:1M:2NAG
                                         200 tg/ml                        52.7
                                         300 pg/ml                        46.4
                                         12.5 pg/ml                       71.8
                                          25 pg/ml                        74.9
              Curcuma
                                          50 ptg/ml                       50.8
                                          75 pg/ml                        58.4
                                         12.5 pLg/ml                      76.3
                                          25 pg/ml                        77.7
               Morus
                                          50 tg/ml                        70.9
                                          75 pg/ml                        70.9
                                          25 pg/mI                        95.7
                                          50 pg/ml                        99.2
                NAG
                                         100 pg/ml                        87.5
                                         150 jpg/mI                       81.2
           As shown in the Table 19, the composition of plant extracts prevented with the
  rhIL- I a mediated degradation of articular cartilage in a concentration dependent
  manner. In particular, a IC: 1M:2NAG compostion showed an unexpected synergistic
5 effect at 300 pLg/ml as compared to the three individual extracts alone (Table 20).
                    Table 20.       Synergistic Effect of C:M:NAG Compositions
            Sample            Dose            %Inhibition               Remark
        1C:1M:2NAG          300 ig/ml              89.6            Theoretical value
        IC: 1M:2NAG         300 ptg/ml             90.5           Experimental result
                                               116

            Sample             Dose          %Inhibition                 Remark
               C             75 pLg/ml            70.1                  Individual
              M              75 pg/ml             49.2                  Individual
             NAG             150 tg/ml            31.8                  Individual
                                            EXAMPLE 32
                     FORMULATION OF MORUS RooT BARK EXTRACT WITH
                               OTHER ACTIVES AND INGREDIENTS
           The bone density compositions were formulated with Morus root bark extracts
 5 with other active and/or excipient ingredients set forth in the following compositions.
   Supplement Facts
   Serving Size: Two (2) Tablets per day
   Directions: Take one (1) Tablet twice daily with meals.
10 Composition 1
   Amount per Serving                                             Amount        % Daily
   Value
   Glucosamine Hydrochloride                                      1,500 mg      *
   Chinese mulberry extract (Morus alba) (root bark)              200 mg        *
15 Curcumin extract (Curcuma longa) (rhizome)                     200 mg        *
   Vitamin D3 (as cholecalciferol)                                400 IU         100%
   Calcium (elemental)                                            600 mg        60%
20 * Daily Value not established
   Composition 2
   Amount per Serving                                             Amount        % Daily
   Value
25 Glucosamine Sulfate                                            1,500 mg      *
                                              117

   Chondroitin sulfate                                   1,200 mg *
   Chinese mulberry extract (Morus alba) (root bark)     100 mg   *
   Acacia extract (Acacia catechu) (heartwood and barks) 50 mg    *
   Vitamin D3 (as cholecalciferol)                       400 IU   100%
 5 Calcium (elemental)                                   300 mg   30%
   * Daily Value not established
10 Composition 3
   Amount per Serving                                    Amount   % Daily
   Value
   N-Acetyl-Glucosamine                                  1,000 mg *
   Chondroitin sulfate                                   200 mg   *
15 Chinese mulberry extract (Morus alba) (root bark)     150 mg   *
   Gambir extract (Uncariagambir) (whole plant)          150 mg   *
   Vitamin D                                             800 IU   200%
   Calcium Citrate (elemental)                           1,000 mg 100%
   Magnesium Citrate                                     300 mg   75%
20 Vitamin K1                                            100 mcg  125%
   Vitamin K2                                            10 mcg   12.5%
   * Daily Value not established
25 Composition 4
   Amount per Serving                                    Amount   % Daily
   Value
   Chinese mulberry extract (Morus alba) (root bark)     250 mg   *
   Curcumin (Curcuma longa) (rhizome)                    250 mg   *
30 Vitamin D3                                            800 IU   200%
   Calcium (elemental)                                   1,000 mg 100%
   Magnesium Citrate                                     400 mg   100%
   Phosphorus                                            300 mg   30%
   Boron (Citrate)                                       200 mcg  *
                                            118

    Zink (Citrate)                                                  13 mg         87%
    * Daily Value not established
 5           Other ingredients: microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium,
    hydroxpropyl cellulose, stearic acid, coating silicon dioxide, glycerin, hydroxypropyl
    methylcellulose.
             This composition provides support of bone and bone and cartilage health. It
   prevents bone loss, increase bone density and provides bone and cartilage comfort by
10  rejuvinating cartilage, lubricating connective tissue and strengthening bones. The
    composition helps you to keep moving and to stay strong and flexible. Bone & Joint
    Support provides 4-way protection for your joints and bones:
                 *    Glucosamine Hydrochloride is provided to protect and strengthen
        joints*.
15               *    Morus alba bioflavonoids are provided to act as potent antioxidants, to
        protect joints against harmful inflammation and oxidants that breakdown bone and
         cartilage tissues*.
                 *    Vitamin D3 is provided for enhanced mineral absorption to help support
         and nourish bones*.
20               *    Calcium is provided to improve bone strength and increase bone
         density*.
                                           EXAMPLE 33
                   MONO-IODOACETATE     (MIA) INDUCED OSTEOARTHRITIS MODEL
             Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease characterized by joint pain
25  and a progressive loss of articular cartilage and, to date, with no cure. As the disease
    advances, the biochemical alterations that occur within the articular cartilage will result
    in imbalances between anabolic and catabolic processes that ultimately alter the overall
   joint structure and function, and lead to chronic pain. Multiple animal models have
   been developed and utilized to study the pathogenesis of OA and to evaluate the
                                                 119

   effectiveness of novel therapeutic agents with limited success. An animal model with a
   robust induction and reproducibility of joint pathology, along with pain associated with
   the disease, was desired, so the minimally invasive mono-iodoacetate (MIA) induced
   OA model was employed. Mono-iodoacetate (MIA) is an inhibitor of glyceraldehyde
 5 3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity shown to induce chondrocyte death and hence
   reproduces cartilage lesions with loss of proteoglycan matrix and functional joint
   impairment similar to human OA (Marker and Pomonis, Methods Mol. Biol. 851:239,
   2012).
           Male Sprague -Dawley (SD) rats weighing about 170 to about 230 g (6 weeks
10 of age) were purchased and acclimated for one week. One day before disease
   induction, animals were randomized into four group as follows: GI (Normal), G2
   (Vehicle), G3 (Diclofenac; 10 mg/kg) and G4 (G:M; 500 mg/kg). Each group was
   orally gavaged with their respective treatment. Anesthetized rats were injected with 0.8
   mg of MIA in a 50 pl saline solution into the intra-articular pocket one hour after the
15 second dose of treatments. Pain sensitivity was measured once a week using a Randall
   Salitto meter and treatment lasted for 6 weeks. Body weights were measured once a
   week to calculate the respective weekly dosage of each group. Once the in-life study
   was concluded, structural and cellular alterations of joint tissues as a result of disease
   progression and/or treatment efficacy was assessed by using histopathology with a
20 modified Mankin scoring system.
                                         EXAMPLE 34
     BONE HISTOMORPHOMETRY IN THERAPEUTIC MIA INDUCED OSTEOARTHRITIS MODEL
           Male Sprague -Dawley (SD) rats weighing 170~230g (6 weeks of age) were
   purchased and acclimated for one week. One day before disease induction, animals
25 were randomized into four group of Normal, Vehicle, Diclofenac (10mg/kg) and GM
   (500mg/kg). Anesthetized rats were injected with 0.8mg of MIA in 50pl saline solution
   into the intra-articular pocket. One week after MIA induction, samples were
   administrated daily with gastric tube for 6 weeks.
                                               120

            Bone histomorphometry was evaluated on both femur and tibia per knee joint in
   rats from the MIA-induced osteoarthritis model by Micro CT scan using an InveonTM
   unit (Siemens Healthcare USA, Inc., Pennsylvania, USA) at Korea Basic science
   institute, Ochang, Korea. BMD was used as an indicator of osteoporosis and fracture
 5 risk; BV/TV as an indicator of trabecular bone volume refers to the ratio of the
   trabecular bone volume to the total volume; BS/BV as an indicator of trabecular
   turnover refers to the ratio of the trabecular bone surface to the trabecular bone volume
   of a region of interest.
            As shown Table 21, BMD in the GM group was significantly increased when
10 compared with that of vehicle group. BV/TV showed the increasing tendency in G:M
   group when compared to that of vehicle group. Diclofenac (positive control) group
   showed decreasing tendency in BV/TV (Table 21).
       Table 21.       Change in BMD and Bone Architecture in Therapeutic MIA Model
                                               Vehicle         Diclofenac             GM
                             Normal
                                                               (10 mg/kg)        (500 mg/kg)
    BMD (mg/cm3)           1023.5±8.3        881.9±64.0        896.2±29.4        956.2±43.7*
      BV/TV (%)            74.76±2.60        68.24±5.03        65.35±7.75         70.12±4.97
         BS/BV              7.22±0.65         8.76±1.13         9.11±1.41          8.22±1.09
        Data represented as mean ± SD. * p < 0.05(vs vehicle).
15     BV/TV; total trabecular bone volume /total tissue (bone + marrow) volume
                                           EXAMPLE 35
     BONE HISTOMORPHOMETRY IN CONCURRENT MIA-INDUCED OSTEOARTHRITIS MODEL
            Male Sprague -Dawley (SD) rats weighing 170~230g (6 weeks of age) were
   purchased and acclimated for one week. One day before disease induction, animals
20 were randomized into four group of Normal, Vehicle, Diclofenac (10mg/kg) and G:M
   (500mg/kg). Anesthetized rats were injected with 0.8mg of MIA in 50pl saline solution
   into the intra-articular pocket at 1 hour after sample treatments. And then samples were
   administrated daily with gastric tube for 6 weeks.
                                                 121

            Bone histomorphometry was evaluated on both femur and tibia per knee joint by
   Micro CT scan using an Inveon     TM unit (Siemens Healthcare USA, Inc., Pennsylvania,
   USA) at Korea Basic science institute, Ochang, Korea. BV/TV as an indicator of
   trabecular bone volume is the ratio of the trabecular bone volume to the total volume.
 5 BMD used as an indicator of osteoporosis and fracture risk. Therefore, we checked
   those markers whether GM has the efficacy on the osteoporosis.
            As shown Table 22, BMD in both Diclofenac and G:M group was significantly
   increased when compared to that of vehicle group. Both Diclofenac and GM groups had
   tendency to increase BV/TV values in comparison against vehicle group in MIA rats.
10 (Table 22).
      Table 22.      Change in BMD and Bone Architecture in Concurrent MIA-Induced
                                              Model
                            Normal            Vehicle         Diclofenac           GM
                                                             (10 mg/kg)       (500 mg/kg)
    BMD (mg/cm3)          1023.5±8.3        881.9±64.0       982.3±19.4#      996.1±11.6#
       BV/TV (%)          74.76±2.60        68.24±5.03       71.89±5.43        70.84±5.92
         Data represented as mean ± SD. * p < 0.05(vs vehicle).
         BV/TV; total trabecular bone volume /total tissue (bone + marrow) volume
15                                       EXAMPLE 36
                        OVARIECTOMIZED (OVX) OSTEOPOROSIS MODEL
            CM (a proprietary blend of Curcuma longa and Morus alba extracts) was tested
   to show the improvement of bone mineral density (BMD) in ovariectomized (OVX)
   rats. Briefly, female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats weighing 190~220g (7 weeks of age)
20 were purchased and acclimated for one week. Rats were randomly divided into
   ovariectomy (OVX) and sham operation group (n=10). OVX was performed through
   flank incision under isoflurane anesthesia. Similar surgical procedures were applied to
   the sham group except the ovaries were not removed.
         OVX rats were divided into OVX control group, Morus-, Curcumin- and C:M
25   treated groups at three dosages. Ten weeks after the OVX or sham operation, all
                                                122

     samples were administrated daily for 12 weeks. Sham and OVX control rats received
     the same volume of 0.5% carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) as vehicle. Osteoporosis
     related parameters including BMD, total trabecular bone volume/Total tissue
     (BV/TV), trabecular thickness (TH/TB) were analyzed.
 5
         Table 23. Change of BMD and architecture in therapeutic MIA induced model.
                                               Vehicle         Diclofenac           G:M
                             Normal
                                                               (10 mg/kg)      (500 mg/kg)
    BMD (mg/cm3)           1023.5±8.3        881.9±64.0        896.2±29.4      956.2±43.7
       BV/TV (%)           74.76±2.60        68.24±5.03        65.35±7.75       70.12±4.97
         BS/BV              7.22±0.65         8.76±1.13         9.11±1.41        8.22±1.09
         Data represented as mean ± SD. * p < 0.05(vs vehicle).
         BV/TV; total trabecular bone volume /total tissue (bone + marrow) volume
                                          EXAMPLE 37
10    BONE HISTOMORPHOMETRY IN CONCURRENT MIA-INDUCED OSTEOARTHRITIS MODEL
            Male Sprague -Dawley (SD) rats weighing 170~230g (6 weeks of age) were
   purchased and acclimated for one week. One day before disease induction, animals
   were randomized into four group of Normal, Vehicle, Diclofenac (10mg/kg) and GM
   (500mg/kg). Anesthetized rats were injected with 0.8mg of MIA in 50pl saline solution
15 into the intra-articular pocket at 1 hour after sample treatments. Samples were
   administrated daily with gastric tube for 6 weeks.
            Bone histomorphometry was evaluated on both femur and tibia per knee joint by
   Micro CT scan using an InveonTM unit (Siemens Healthcare USA, Inc., Pennsylvania,
   USA) at Korea Basic science institute, Ochang, Korea. BV/TV as an indicator of
20 trabecular bone volume is the ratio of the trabecular bone volume to the total volume.
   BMD used as an indicator of osteoporosis and fracture risk.
            As shown Table 24 and Figure 1, BMD in both Diclofenac and GM group was
   significantly increased when compared to that of vehicle group. Both Diclofenac and
                                                 123

   GM groups had tendency to increase BV/TV values in comparison against vehicle
   group in MIA rats (Table 24; Figure 1).
      Table 24.       Change in BMD and Bone Architecture in Concurrent MIA-Induced
                                              Model
                                              Vehicle           Diclofenac           GM
                            Normal
                                                                (10 mg/kg)      (500 mg/kg)
    BMD (mg/cm3)           1023.5±8.3       881.9±64.0         982.3±19.4'      996.1±11.64
      BV/TV (%)           74.76±2.60        68.24±5.03          71.89±5.43       70.84±5.92
 5      Data represented as mean ± SD. * p < 0.05(vs vehicle).
        BV/TV; total trabecular bone volume /total tissue (bone + marrow) volume
                                          EXAMPLE 38
      CLINICAL TRIAL EVALUATING THE EFFECT OF MORUSALBA AND ACA CIA CA TECHU ON
                                 ADULTS WITH OSTEOARTHRITIS
10         This study examined the effect of an Acacia/Morus (1A:2M) composition on
   discomfort (onset and overall) and overall function when taken for a 12-week period by
   individuals having osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee. In this study, 135 adults, aged 35 to
   75 years, with BMI of less than 35 kg/m 2 who had knee pain for at least 15 of the 30
   days prior to starting the study, had symptoms of knee pain for at least 6 months prior to
15 starting the study, and had a Kellgren-Lawrence grade of I, II, or III according to a
   screening X-ray and met all the inclusion/exclusion criteria were enrolled after signing
   the informed consent. The study lasted approximately 12 weeks, with subjects seen at a
   screening visit and 6 study visits (at days 0, 7, 14, 28, 56 and 84). The screening visit
   also included an X-ray of the knee for determination of OA with Kellgren-Lawrence
20 grades of I-III inclusionary (unless subject had an X-ray from the past 6 months). At
   the screening visit, subjects were provided with rescue medication (acetaminophen) and
   were asked to bring the unused rescue medication to each follow-up visit so that rescue
   medication usage could be determined.
           The study subjects were randomized and administered one of the following
25 three study articles:
                                                124

            Test Product - was comprised of Morus alba (White Mulberry) and Acacia
   catechu (Senegalia catechu) (100 mg per capsule), formulated with pharmaceutically
   acceptable carriers or excipients, including microcrystalline cellulose, magnesium
   stearate (vegetable) and silicon dioxide.
 5          Positive Control - was comprised of a combination of glucosamine (375 mg)
   and chondroitin (300 mg), formulated with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or
   excipients, including magnesium stearate (vegetable) and silicon dioxide.
            Placebo - was comprised of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients,
   including microcrystalline cellulose, magnesium stearate (vegetable) and silicon
10 dioxide
            Subjects were instructed to take two capsules with a morning meal and two
   capsules with an evening meal with up to 8 ounces of water, for a total of four capsules
   per day.
            One efficacy measure was to determine the effect on discomfort when Test
15 Product was used for 12 weeks as compared to Postive Control (glucosamine
   chondroitin) and Placebo, as measured by: (a) Western Ontario and McMaster
   University Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) pain sub-score; (b) Visual Analog Scale
   (VAS)-Discomfort ratings (ratings over 12 weeks); and (c) rescue medication use (over
   12 weeks).
20          A second efficacy measure was to determine the acute effect on discomfort over
   the first 7 days of use of Test Product as compared to Postive Control and Placebo, as
   measured by: (a) Visual Analog Scale (VAS)-Discomfort ratings (daily ratings over the
   first 7 days of product use); and (b) rescue medication use (over the first 7 days of
   product use).
25          A third efficacy measure was to determine the effect on overall function when
   Test Product was used for 12 weeks as compared to Postive Control and Placebo, as
   measured by: (a) Western Ontario and McMaster University Osteoarthritis Index
   (WOMAC) stiffness and activities of daily living sub-scores; (b) Range of Motion
   Goniometer Testing; and (c) Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT).
30          A fourth efficacy measure was to determine the effects on inflammation and
   bone metabolism when Test Product was used for 12 weeks as compared to Postive
                                                125

   Control and Placebo, as measured by production of the following various biomarkers:
   (a) tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFa); (b) Interleukin-1 beta (IL-I P), (c) Interleukin
   10 (IL-10), and (d) urinary CTX-II.
           The main efficacy analysis was conducted on a Per-Protocol (PP) basis, using
 5 the PP population because the attrition was well within the expected limit, so no
   intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis was necessary. For each continuous efficacy variable,
   the mean change from baseline to each subsequent time point within each product
   group was tested for nominal significance by the paired Student t test, or by the non
   parametric Wilcoxon test if substantially non-normally distributed. For each
10 continuous efficacy variable at each time point, and for changes from baseline to each
   subsequent time point, the values were tested for an overall difference between the three
   products by the one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). For the analysis of the
   biomarkers (TNFa and CTX-II/CR), three approaches were used as follows: (1) non
   parametric testing for any difference between the three groups (using the non
15 parametric Kruskal-Wallis test instead of the 1-way ANOVA); (2) parametric
   (ANOVA) and non-parametric (KW) testing between the three groups on the
   logarithms of the values; and (3) analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), for comparing
   mean changes from baseline between UP 1306 and G+C, and between UP1306 and
   Placebo, adjusted for baseline value) on the logarithms of the values.
20         Safety of daily supplementation with UP1306 was determined based on changes
   from baseline to 12 weeks in blood work (comprehensive metabolic panel, complete
   blood count with differential and PT/INR), blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR),
   adverse events, and subjective remarks.
           All safety analyses were conducted on the Safety population. For each
25 continuous safety variable, the mean change (or mean percentage change) from baseline
   to each subsequent time point within each product group was tested for significance by
   the paired Student t test, or by the non-parametric Wilcoxon test if substantially non
   normally distributed. For each continuous safety variable at each time point, the mean
   differences in the variable, and in the change in that variable from baseline, between the
30 three different products was tested for significance by the one-way analysis of variance
   (ANOVA). For each categorical safety variable, the difference in the distribution of
                                                126

   categories between the different test articles was tested for significance by the Fisher
   Exact test if possible, or by the Chi-Square test if necessary. Adverse events (AEs)
   were listed, MedDRA encoded, grouped by general type of event (gastrointestinal,
   neurologic, cardiac, etc.), and cross-tabulated by event type and product group.
 5 Differences in AE patterns between test articles were measured by the Fisher Exact test.
   Subjective remarks were categorized to the extent possible, and analyzed for pattern
   differences between product groups in the same way as AEs.
   Results
   Safety
10         There were no changes of clinical significance for any of the safety endpoints
   (e.g. blood pressure, heart rate and safety lab values). There was also no significant
   association between the test product and frequency of occurrence of adverse events. No
   serious adverse events (SAEs) were observed during the course of this study.
           A total of 43 adverse events (AEs) were observed among 30 of the 133 subjects
15 in the Safety population. Fifteen (15) of the 43 AEs were observed in the subjects in
   the Test Product (Morus/Acacia) group, ten (10) of the 43 AEs were observed in the
   subjects in the Postive Control (glucosamine and chondroitin combination) group, and
   18 of the 43 AEs were observed in the subjects in the Placebo group.
           Fourteen (14) of the 43 total AEs, among seven subjects, were considered
20 probably or possibly related to the Test Product; the other one was considered unlikely
   or definitely not related to the Test Product. Among the 14 probably or possibly related
   AEs, three (3) AEs occurred among two of the subjects in the Test Product group; two
   AEs occurred among two of the subjects in the Postive Control group; and 9 AEs
   occurred among three of the subjects in the Placebo group.
25         Overall, there were no safety concerns raised with the Test Product.
   Efficacy
           There were significant improvements from baseline to most time-points for all
   efficacy measures within groups. The two significant differences observed between the
   Test Product and the controls were the following:
                                                127

           *    WOMAC Pain: significant decrease from baseline to Day 56 for Test
                Product over the Positive Control (p=0.048).
           *   Urine CTX-II: significant difference between the changes for Test
                Product and Placebo after 12 weeks of use (p=0.029).
 5         Based on the data from this study, the high rate of response for the Placebo
   group made it difficult to extract statistically significant data between the three groups
   as the response rate was favorable for all three study groups. The subject reported
   outcomes (WOMAC , VAS ) failed to show statistical significance other than one time
   point for Test Product (Day 56 for UP1306 over the Positive Control (p=0.048)), but the
10 objective biomarkers, such as CTXII, met the objective by showing significant
   difference between the Test Product and Placebo after 12 weeks product use (p=0.029).
           As noted above, the measure of the following biomarkers: (a) tumor necrosis
   factor-alpha (TNFa); (b) Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1P), (c) Interleukin-10 (IL-10), and (d)
   urinary CTX-II, was used as a surrogate measure of the effect Test Product had on
15 inflammation and bone metabolism when used for 12 weeks, as compared to Positive
   Control and Placebo. The values for interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 P), interleukin-10 (IL-10)
   were below the limits of quantitation for the majority of the subjects resulting in a small
   data set; therefore, these were not analyzed. In addition, tumor necrosis factor-alpha
   (TNFa) showed no statistically significant changes in scores within group for any of the
20 three tested articles, including no statistically significant difference in the change from
   baseline to day 84 between groups (data not shown).
   Measurement of Urinary CTX-11 at Baseline and at Day 84
           CTX-II measurements Urinary levels of collagen type II C telopeptide
   fragments were measured by the CartiLaps ELISA assay. The assay uses a highly
25 specific monoclonal antibody for the detection of degradation products of C-terminal
   telopeptide of type II Collagen. The assay is based on the competitive binding of the
   monoclonal antibody to urinary fragments of type II collagen.
           The concentration of the CTX-II ELISA (ng/l) was standardized to the total
   urine creatinine (mmol/1): concentration / creatinine = ng/mmol. Creatinine
30 concentration was measured using a creatinine Colorimetric assay kit (Cayman
                                                 128

     Chemical) that relies on the Jaffe's reaction. CTX-II biomarker values were not
     normally distributed and consequently the mean values and standard deviations were
     calculated by non-parametric statistics.
                Table 1.       Urinary CTX-IICR (ng/mmol), by Product, by Visit,
5                                   all Subjects (Actual Values)*
                 Visit            Test Product          Positive Control         Placebo
                Visit 2          414 ± 231 (44)           403 ±310 (45)       339 ±208 (44)
          Randomization        364 (131 - 1,117)        342 (70 - 1,894)      263 (92 - 888)
                                 377     296(44)          404 ±233 (45)       417 *266(43)
                                301 (87 - 1,890)        357 (48 - 1,216)           1,129)
           Change from           -37 ± 319 (44)            2 ± 303 (45)        85 ± 238 (43)
          Baseline to Day
                   84          -23 (-667 - 1,372)        9 (-1,174 - 605)     6 (-277 - 791)
          *analysis using log transformed values
       Table 2.        Urinary CTX-IICR (ng/mmol), by Product by Visit, in PP Population
                                                                             3-group        ANCOVA
                                                                              Comp
  Visit       Test Product      Positive Control            Placebo        par     Non-    TP
                                                                          ANO        par   vs.   Pla
                                                                           VA       KW     PC
 Visit 2     5.88 ± 0.53 (43)    5.77 ± 0.67 (44)      5.68 ± 0.60 (41)   0.332    0.340
  Rand      5.89 (4.88 - 7.02)  5.82 (4.25 - 7.55)   5.61 (4.53 - 6.79)             (np)
 Visit 7     5.74 ± 0.61 (43)    5.81 ± 0.64 (44)      5.91 ± 0.57 (40)   0.428    0.499
 Day 84    5.71 (4.47 - 7.54)    5.86 (3.87 - 7.1)    5.75 (4.9 - 7.03)             (np)
Change
  from     -0.14 ± 0.62 (43) -   0.04 ± 0.66 (44)     0.25 ± 0.64 (40)             0.070
  Rand      0.08 (-1.69 - 1.3)  0.03 (-1.26 - 1.6)   0.13 (-0.75 -2.03)   0.025      np)  0.327 0.029
 to Day       p = 0.165 (np)      p = 0.804 (np)        p = 0.042 (np)
    84
          *analysis using log transformed values
                                                   129

            There was a statistically significant difference between the changes for Test
   Product and Placebo after 12 weeks of product use (p=0.029).
            Urinary CTX-II levels are useful for detecting populations at high risk of joint
   damage progression early in the disease. These data also indicate that in these patients
 5 with increased bone/cartilage degradation, even in the absence of severe joint damage,
   early intervention with products aimed at reducing both bone and cartilage
   degradation-in combination, for example, with an anti-inflammatory therapy-may
   help to prevent subsequent joint damage. These findings have important clinical
   implications for the management of OA, RA and other cartilage degradation related
10 conditions.
            The various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further
   embodiments. All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent application publications, U.S. patent
   applications, foreign patents, foreign patent applications and non-patent publications
   referred to in this specification and/or listed in the Application Data Sheet are
15 incorporated herein by reference, in their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be
   modified, if necessary to employ concepts of the various patents, applications and
   publications to provide yet further embodiments.
            These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in light of the above
   detailed description. In general, in the following claims, the terms used should not be
20 construed to limit the claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification
   and the claims, but should be construed to include all possible embodiments along with
   the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly, the claims
   are not limited by the disclosure.
25 This application is a divisional application from Australian application 2015277265. The full
   disclosure of AU2015277265 is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                   130

Claims
    1.          The use of a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated
       flavonoids and one or more Stilbenes, and an Acacia extract enriched for flavans for
       the manufacture of a medicament for relieving pain and discomfort caused by
       exercise, work, overexertion or any combination thereof.
    2.          The use of a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated
       flavonoids and one or more Stilbenes, and an Acacia extract enriched for flavans for
       the manufacture of a medicament for relieving pain or discomfort caused by oxidative
       stress, harmful free radicals, aging, wear and tear, exercise, work, overexertion or any
       combination thereof.
    3.          The use of the mixtures in claims 1 or 2, wherein Mentha extract enriched for
       rosmarinic acid, eriocitrin, or both is included in the mixture.
    4.          The use of a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated
       flavonoids and one or more Stilbenes, and an Uncaria extract enriched for flavans for
       the manufacture of a medicament for relieving pain and discomfort caused by
       exercise, work, overexertion or any combination thereof.
    5.          The use of a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated
       flavonoids and one or more Stilbenes, and an Uncaria extract enriched for flavans for
       the manufacture of a medicament for relieving pain or discomfort caused by oxidative
       stress, harmful free radicals, aging, wear and tear, exercise, work, overexertion or any
       combination thereof.
    6.          The use of the mixtures in claims 4 or 5, wherein Mentha extract enriched for
       rosmarinic acid, eriocitrin, or both is included in the mixture.
    7.          The use of a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated
       flavonoids and one or more Stilbenes, and a Curcuma extract enriched for
       curcuminoids for the manufacture of a medicament for relieving pain and discomfort
       caused by exercise, work, overexertion or any combination thereof.
    8.          The use of a mixture of a Morus extract enriched for one or more prenylated
       flavonoids and one or more Stilbenes, and a Curcuma extract enriched for
       curcuminoids for the manufacture of a medicament for relieving pain or discomfort
       caused by oxidative stress, harmful free radicals, aging, wear and tear, exercise, work,
       overexertion or any combination thereof.

9.        The use of the mixtures in claims 7 or 8, wherein Mentha extract enriched for
   rosmarinic acid, eriocitrin, or both is included in the mixture.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
