                                           Abstract
  The invention relates to a vacuum cleaner. The vacuum cleaner comprises a head portion; a
body; a vacuum module positioned in the body, the vacuum module being adapted to generate
suction for collecting dust via the head portion; a hose member adapted to connect the head
portion with the vacuum module; and a guide member associated with the hose member; wherein
the guide member is adapted to guide movement of the hose member such that, in response to
movement of the guide member, the hose member automatically extends between a retracted
position and an extended position to thereby position the head portion relative to the body.

                                       Description
        Title of Invention: An Appliance For Vacuum Cleaning
       Technical Field
[0001]   The invention relates to a vacuum cleaning appliance and particularly, but not ex
       clusively, to a portable or hand-held electrical appliance for vacuum cleaning.
       Background Art
[0002]   Various types of electrical vacuum cleaning appliances, including cylindrical and
       hand-held vacuum cleaners, have been widely used in both domestic and industrial
       settings. A common vacuum cleaner generally comprises a main body having a
       vacuum pump and a dust collecting bag or chamber, and a pipe or hose for connecting
       the main body to a suction head. The required suction of the vacuum cleaner is
       generally provided by a partial vacuum generated by the vacuum pump, with any dirt,
       dust, debris or the like being sucked in and thereby lifted from a surface by the
       generated suction via the suction head. The lifted dirt is then conveyed along the
       connecting hose and subsequently filtered from the suction airstream and stored at the
       collecting bag or chamber for disposal.
[0003]   To facilitate easy positioning of the suction head at a specific location to be cleaned,
       which can be any reachable surface ranging from, for example, floors, stairs, ceilings
       and/or surfaces of furniture, vacuum cleaners have typically been designed with a
       length adjusting functionality on the connecting handle or pipe of the suction head,
       such that the handle or the pipe can be lengthened or shortened as desired by the user
       to meet their specific cleaning needs. The length adjustment is generally conducted
       manually by the user, for example, by hand sliding of two telescopically connected
       handle or pipe units, followed by the manual locking of any movable parts of the
       handle or pipe units by a lock or the like to thereby fix the length of the extended or
       retracted handle or pipe units. In use and when a length adjustment of the handle or the
       pipe is required, the user will generally have to stop the cleaning activity, manually
       adjust the handle or the pipe to a newly desired length, and then manually lock the
       movable parts to again fix the length of the extended or retracted handle or pipe units
       before he or she can continue with the vacuum cleaning. The process is therefore un
       derstandably tedious and highly inconvenient for the user. In addition, the length ad
       justment available on a conventional vacuum cleaner may typically be restricted to a
       limited number of adjustment or connection points, for example, one to two extendable
       or retractable connection points. Accordingly, even where the handle or pipe of the
       vacuum cleaner is length adjustable, it is highly likely that the user will still have to, in
       practice, occasionally physically adjust his or her working distance from the location to

       be cleaned as a consequence of the fixed length of the extended or retracted handle or
       pipe units.
       Objects of the Invention
[0004]   An object of the present invention is to provide a vacuum cleaner, in which the
       aforesaid shortcomings are mitigated or at least to provide a useful alternative.
[0005]   Another object of the invention is to mitigate or obviate to some degree one or more
       problems associated with known appliances for vacuum cleaning.
[0006]   The above object is met by the combination of features of the main claim; the sub
       claims disclose further advantageous embodiments of the invention.
[0007]   One skilled in the art will derive from the following description other objects of the
       invention. Therefore, the foregoing statements of object are not exhaustive and serve
       merely to illustrate some of the many objects of the present invention.
       Summary of Invention
[0008]   In one main aspect, the invention provides a vacuum cleaner. The vacuum cleaner
       comprises a head portion; a body; a vacuum module positioned in the body, the
       vacuum module being adapted to generate suction for collecting dust via the head
       portion; a hose member adapted to connect the head portion with the vacuum module;
       and a guide member associated with the hose member; wherein the guide member is
       adapted to guide movement of the hose member such that, in response to movement of
       the guide member, the hose member automatically extends between a retracted
       position and an extended position to thereby position the head portion relative to the
       body.
[0009]   The summary of the invention does not necessarily disclose all the features essential
       for defining the invention; the invention may reside in a sub-combination of the
       disclosed features.
       Brief Description of Drawings
[0010]   The foregoing and further features of the present invention will be apparent from the
       following description of preferred embodiments which are provided by way of
       example only in connection with the accompanying figures, of which:
[0011]   Fig. 1 is a perspective view showing a vacuum cleaner in accordance with an em
       bodiment of the present invention;
[0012]   Fig. 2 is a side cross-sectional view showing the vacuum cleaner of Fig. 1;
[0013]   Fig. 3 is a top view showing the vacuum cleaner of Fig. 1;
[0014]   Fig. 4 is an exploded view showing a belt member and a gear system of a control
       module of the vacuum cleaner of Fig. 1, with an output gear of the gear system rotating
       in a first direction;
[0015]   Fig. 5 is an exploded view showing the arrangement of Fig. 4, with the output gear

       rotating in a second direction;
[0016]   Fig. 6 is an exploded view showing a clutch system of the control module of the
       vacuum cleaner of Fig. 1;
[0017]   Fig. 7 shows the clutch plate and the output gear of Fig. 6;
[0018]   Fig. 8 is an exploded view showing the embodiment of Fig. 4 with a belt cover; and
[0019]   Fig. 9 is a front view showing the arrangement of the belt member in the belt cover
       of Fig. 8.
       Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0020]   The following description is of preferred embodiments by way of example only and
       without limitation to the combination of features necessary for carrying the invention
       into effect.
[0021]   Reference in this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means that
       a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the em
       bodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of
       the phrase "in one embodiment" in various places in the specification are not nec
       essarily all referring to the same embodiment, nor are separate or alternative em
       bodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover, various features are
       described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly,
       various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments
       but not other embodiments.
[0022]   In the claims hereof, any element expressed as a means for performing a specified
       function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function. It is thus
       regarded that any means that can provide those functionalities are equivalent to those
       shown herein.
[0023]   Referring to Fig. 1, shown is an electrical appliance 10 for vacuum cleaning in ac
       cordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The vacuum cleaner 10
       comprises a head portion or suction head 2 having an inlet 4 via which dirt, dust, debris
       or the like can be sucked in and received into the vacuum cleaner 10 via the suctioning
       action of the vacuum cleaner 10. As shown in the figure, one or more rotating brush
       member 6 can optionally be provided at or adjacent the inlet 4 to facilitate debris
       collection by the head portion 2 from a surface.
[0024]   The vacuum cleaner 10 also comprises a main body 12, with a housing 14 of the
       main body 12 for encasing a number of functional parts including, but not limited to, a
       dust collection module 16 for receiving and storing the collected dust and debris; and a
       vacuum module 20 for generating the required suction force. In this embodiment, the
       vacuum module 20 may comprise a vacuum pump 22 for generating a partial or sub
       stantial vacuum for the suctioning action, and one or more dust filters such as, but not
       limited to, an air inlet filter 24a for filtering a dust-laden incoming air stream, and an

       air outlet filter 24b for filtering an outgoing air stream, for example.
[0025]   Connecting the head portion 2 with the main body 12, and more specifically, the
       vacuum module 20 of the main body 12 is a hose member 30 as shown in the figure.
       The hose member 30 may be a flexible, corrugated vacuum hose member of known
       type. In this embodiment, the hose member 30 is preferably in the form of a stretchable
       hose, pipe, tube or the like being made of one or more resilient materials such as
       plastics, for example, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) for its durability and flexibility. The
       stretchability of the hose member 30 affords positioning of the head portion 2 relative
       to the main body 12, that is, allows the head portion 2 to be extended away from or
       retracted towards the main body 12. Although a specific example of the hose member
       30 has been described in this embodiment, a person skilled in the art would understand
       that any variations to the hose member in terms of, for example, size, configuration,
       construction and/or material, are also encompassed as long as the variations are
       considered suitable and applicable without departing from the inventive concept of the
       present invention. For example, in an alternative embodiment, the hose member 30 can
       be provided in the form of a tube like structure comprising a plurality of tubular units
       telescopically movable relative to one another. The telescopic movement of the tubular
       units allows the required extendibility or stretchability of the hose member 30.
[0026]   Specifically, the hose member 30 is arranged with a guide member 40, with the guide
       member 40 being capable of guiding movement of the hose member 30, such that, in
       response to movement of the guide member 40, the hose member 30 automatically
       extends/retracts, i.e. stretches/collapses, between a retracted position and an extended
       position to thereby position the head portion 2 relative to the main body 12. Preferably,
       the guide member 40 is arranged substantially parallel to and is extendable/retractable
       along a same direction of extension/retraction as the hose member 30. Preferably, the
       extension of the guide member 40 is extendable/retractable along a handle 7 of the
       vacuum cleaner 10 to thereby allow the hose member 30 to serve, in effect, as an
       extended length of the user's arm when the vacuum cleaner is being held at the handle
       7 by the user.
[0027]   In the embodiment as shown in Figs. 1 and 2, the guide member 40 may comprise a
       plurality of guide units 40A, 40B and 40C movably associated with one another to
       thereby extend and retract the guide member 40 along an extension axis parallel to a
       longitudinal axis of the hose member 30. The plurality of guide units 40A, 40B and
       40C may comprise a plurality of elongated sub-units slidably connected with one
       another, and more preferably, the plurality of guide units 40A, 40B and 40C may
       comprise a plurality of tubular structures telescopically connected with one another to
       thereby extend or retract along the extension axis, as more clearly shown in Fig 2. In
       one embodiment, the guide units of the guide member 40 can be formed of any suitable

       materials such as, but not limited to, polymers and/or metals, and preferably, aluminum
       for its relatively high physical strength and light weight.
[0028]   Preferably, at least one of the plurality of guide units 40A, 40B and/or 40C is
       arranged relative to the hose member 30 via at least one positioning means 42. In one
       embodiment, the positioning means 42 can be fixedly connected between part of the
       hose member 30 and one or more of the plurality of guide units 40A, 40B and/or 40C.
       Alternatively, the positioning means 42, such as the positioning means 42A, 42B and
       42C as shown in Figs. 1 and 2, can be arranged at the respective guide units 40A, 40B
       and 40C of the guide member 40 for providing support to and thereby positioning the
       hose member 30. Preferably, the positioning means 42A, 42B and 42C may comprise
       or be provided in the form of one or more ring or sleeve members connecting to the re
       spective guide units 40A, 40B and 40C at one end, and receiving at least partially the
       hose member 30 at the other end, as illustrated in Fig. 3.
[0029]   Likewise, although specific arrangements of the guide member 40 and the po
       sitioning means 42 have been described in the various embodiments, it will be un
       derstood by a skilled person in the art that any variations to the guide member and/or
       the positioning means in terms of, for example, sizes, configurations, constructions
       and/or materials, should also be encompassed by the present invention, as long as the
       variations are considered suitable and applicable without departing from the inventive
       concept of the present invention.
[0030]   Preferably, the guide member 40 is controllable by a control module 50 actuatable by
       but is not limited to electrical power. For example, the control module 50 may
       comprise one or more transmission systems operable under one or more of an electric
       mechanism, a hydraulic mechanism, a pneumatic mechanism and/or an electro
       magnetic mechanism. In one embodiment, the control module 50 may comprise a me
       chanical transmission system having an electrically powered motor 52 with its output
       shaft 54 mechanically connecting with a gear system 51 comprising a series of gear
       members such as gears 56, 58 and 60, as shown in Figs. 4 and 5. Preferably, the gear
       system 51, and particularly the output gear 60, is arranged to engage with an elongated
       member 62 connected at one end with the guide member 40 thereby causing movement
       of the guide units in response to movement of the elongated member 62. In one em
       bodiment as shown in the figures, the elongate member 62 is preferably made of a
       flexible material and may comprise at least one belt member 62. More preferably, the
       belt member 62 is a toothed belt member 62 thereby allowing engagement of the teeth
       64 of the belt member 62 with the gear system 51 such as the corresponding teeth of
       the output gear 60 at the other end portion of the belt member 62. Optionally, a po
       sitioning wheel 61 can be provided to position the belt member 62 relative to the
       output gear 60 to thereby ensure close engagement between the belt member 62 with

       the output gear 60.
[0031]   In one embodiment, the belt member 62 can be arranged to connect with the gear
       system 51 of the control module 50 at one end, with the other end connected with one
       or more of the guide units 40A, 40B and/or 40C of the guide member 40, as shown in
       Fig. 2. A portion of the belt member 62 intermediate its ends preferably runs along at
       least part of the length of the guide member 40. The belt member 62 may preferably be
       positioned within and along a hollow center of the guide member 40, with the belt
       member 62 being arranged to be closely confined, and yet moveable within the hollow
       center of the guide member 40. The closely confined arrangement can be provided by
       having the belt member 62 having a shape generally configured to be in conformity
       with the shape of the interior of, for example, the tubular structure of the guide
       member 40, such that any unintended movement such as a sideways movement and/or
       folding of the belt member 62 within the hollow center of the tubular guide member 40
       being reduced, minimized or avoided. Since the belt member 62 is arranged to connect
       with at least an end one of the guide units of the guide member 40, rotational
       movement of, for example, the engaged output gear 60 will cause movement of the belt
       member 62 along its longitudinal axis, which will in turn cause the connected guide
       units 40A, 40B and 40C to move along the same direction. More specifically, lon
       gitudinal movement of the belt member 40 will result in telescopic movement of one or
       more of the guide units 40A, 40B and 40C relative to one another, to thereby allow
       extension or retraction of the guide member 40 dependent on the direction of
       movement of the belt member 62. Preferably, the flexible belt member 62 is of a
       sufficient rigidity to avoid easy dislocation or folding of the belt member 62 within the
       guide member 40 during the belt movement, which may further be assisted by the
       closely confined but moveable arrangement of the belt member 62 within the guide
       member 40. In one alternative embodiment, the belt member 62 can be positioned
       external to the guide member 40, for example, by being connected thereto via several
       connection points at a side wall of the guide units of the guide member 40.
[0032]   In one further embodiment, the control module 50 may comprise at least one clutch
       system 70 having at least one clutch plate 72 engageable with the gear system 51 such
       as the output gear 60 as shown in Figs. 6 and 7. The clutch plate 72 can be provided
       with one or more protrusions and/or recesses 74 which conform or match with the cor
       responding protrusions and/or recesses 62 at the output gear 60 for engagement
       therewith. For example, the protrusion and/or recess 74 can be trapezoidal in shape,
       with each of the opposing inclined sides pointing towards a centre of the clutch plate
       72 and each forming an inclination angle of, for example, less than or equal to about 45
       degrees with a central, vertical axis. Alternatively, the clutch plate 72 and the output
       gear 60 may also be engageable via only friction between the corresponding contact

       surfaces of the clutch plate 72 and the output gear 60.
[0033]   The clutch plate 72 is adapted to be biased against the output gear 60 via one or more
       biasing means 78, which can be provided in the form of one or more spring members
       78, for example. In the embodiment as shown in Fig. 6, the spring members 78 are
       provided at a side of the gear 58, which mechanically connects the output shaft 54 of
       the motor 52 with the output gear 60 via the clutch system 70. A shaft 82 can be
       provided at the central axis of the gear 58 at the same side as the spring members 78 to
       connect the output gear 60 by sandwiching a number of intermediate plate members of
       the clutch system 70 in between. The plate members may include, but are not limited
       to, a spring plate 84, a mid plate 86 and the clutch plate 72. These intermediate plate
       members are positioned under the biasing action of, and are pressed towards the output
       gear 60 by the spring members 78.
[0034]   In use and when the motor 52 is electrically actuated, rotation of the gear 58 will
       cause the connected output gear 60 to rotate in the same rotational direction. For
       example, a clockwise rotation of the gear 58 and thus a clockwise rotation T1 of the
       output gear 60 as shown in Fig. 4 will draw the belt member 62 towards the direction
       of the gear 60 to thereby retract the connected guide member 40 towards the main
       body 12; and an anticlockwise rotation of the gear 58 and thus an anticlockwise
       rotation T1 of the output gear 60 as shown in Fig. 5 will extend the belt member 62
       away from the gear 60 to thereby extend the guide member 40 away from the main
       body 12. During a normal operation of the gear system 51 and thus the interconnected
       clutch system 70, the clutch plate 72 is rotatable under the driving action of the gear
       58, and at the same time, arranged to bias towards the axial direction T2 towards the
       output gear 60 and thus, presses on and engages with the output gear 60. The driving
       rotation of the gear 58 thus causes the output gear 60 to rotate in the same direction as
       the gear 58 to extend or retract the guide member 40.
[0035]   When the guide member 40 is telescopically extended to its maximum length of
       extension or is retracted to its minimum length of retraction, further extension or re
       traction of the guide member 40 will be physically prevented and thus resistance will
       be generated at the output gear 60. A counter rotation reaction force Ti' as well as a
       counter axial reaction force T2' will be experienced by the clutch plate 72. Par
       ticularly, when the counter axial reaction force T2' is developed to become greater
       than the biasing force T2 provided by the spring members 78, the clutch plate 74 will
       be caused to disengage from the output gear 60, thereby preventing further rotation of
       the output gear 60. No further extension or retraction of the belt member 62 and thus,
       extension or retraction of the guide member 40 will result. The clutch system 70 is
       therefore beneficial in allowing an automatic disconnection of the output gear 60 with
       the drive of the transmission system when the telescopic movement of the guide

       member 40 has reached a certain maxima or minima, which may otherwise cause
       damage to the gear system 51, the motor 52 or even the vacuum cleaner 10.
[0036]   Although the clutch system 70 of the control module 50 is described above as a
       specific embodiment, it is understandable that the present invention should not be
       limited to the exemplified system in providing the automatic disconnection of the
       transmission mechanism. For example, an integrated circuit breaker in any known
       form can be provided at the control module 50 to electrically disconnect the power
       supply to, and/or to stop the rotational driving force from the motor 52 thereby
       preventing further movement of the guide member 40.
[0037]   In one further embodiment, a wheel cap or belt cover 90 may optionally be provided
       to cover the output gear 60 and the engaged belt member 62 for protection, as shown in
       Figs. 8 and 9. A belt clamp 92 may further be provided to secure position of the belt
       member 62 relative to the output gear 60 and the belt cover 90.
[0038]   The vacuum cleaner 10 as embodied in the present invention may generally be
       powered by an AC power supply, but may optionally include a DC battery and/or a
       rechargeable battery pack as a supportive or alternative power source. As shown in
       Figs. 1-3, the vacuum cleaner 10 may comprise a first, main switch 3 for controlling
       power supply to the vacuum cleaner 10, and a second switch 5 for actuating and con
       trolling extension and retraction of the hose member 30. In one embodiment, the main
       switch 3 can be arranged to electrically connect with the vacuum module 20 to allow
       electric power supply to the vacuum pump 22, and the second switch 5 can be elec
       trically connected with the control module 50 to provide electric power supply to the
       motor 52. The second switch 5 may further comprise forward and a backward buttons
       for controlling the extending and retracting movements of the guide member 40 and
       thus the hose member 30, respectively. Preferably, the first and the second switches 3,
       5 can be connected with a same printed circuit board or different printed circuit boards
       to enable separate electrical control to the control module 50 and the vacuum module
       20, so that the relevant parts such as the transmission system and the vacuum pump 22
       can be operated and controlled independently. This is beneficial in allowing control to
       the extension and retraction of the hose member 30 be conducted regardless of the
       operating condition of the vacuum pump 22. The main switch 3 and the second switch
       5 are positioned at or close to the handle for easy manual access by a thumb or a finger
       of a user holding the vacuum cleaner 10 in operation. Consequently, a user can auto
       matically cause extension or retraction of the hose member to a desired length whilst
       the vacuum cleaner 10 is operating without having to change their hold on the handle
       of the vacuum cleaner 10.
[0039]   In one further embodiment, the plurality of guide units of the guide member 40 are
       adapted to be manually movable relative to one another to thereby allow a manual, i.e.

       physical, extension and retraction of the hose member 30 along its extension axis. Par
       ticularly, one or more of the guide units 40A, 40B and 40C may further be manually
       positioned relative to one another and/or be locked in place via one or more corre
       sponding manual locking means (not shown). Manual extension/retraction of the
       plurality of guide units and thus the hose may be assisted by configuring the clutch to
       disengage or the friction of the clutch to be overcome when said plurality of guide
       units are manually manipulated. The provision of a manual adjusting mechanism in
       addition to the automatic extension and retraction of the hose member controllable by
       the control module 50 allows further flexibility for the user to easily position the head
       portion 2 at the location to be cleaned.
[0040]   Without limited by the described embodiments, it will be readily understood by a
       skilled person in the art that any variations to the vacuum cleaner in terms of, for
       example, dimensions, configurations, constructions, designs and/or materials forming
       one or more parts thereof, should also be encompassed by the present invention, as
       long as the variations are considered suitable and applicable without departing from the
       inventive concept of the present invention. For example, in one embodiment, the hose
       member 30 can be arranged to connect with the main body 12 via one or more
       connecting means such as one or more interconnected conduits which allow fluid com
       munication between the hose member 30 and the vacuum module 20 of the main body
       12. In this embodiment, the conduit is preferred to be releasably engageable with a
       holding portion provided at the housing 16 of the main body 12 such that, in use, the
       user is allowed to manually detach the conduit from the housing 16 thereby enabling
       further physical extension of the hose member 30 away from the main body 12. The
       conduit may further be formed of a stretchable material and/or be configured to be
       stretchable or extendable for additional extendibility. In one further embodiment, the
       vacuum module 20 may further be arranged to be releasably detachable from the main
       body 12 to thereby provide further flexibility to the user.
[0041]   The present invention is advantageous in that it provides a vacuum cleaner, and par
       ticularly but not exclusively, a portable vacuum cleaner which is capable of auto
       matically extending and retracting a hose connecting the suction head with the main
       body of the vacuum cleaner upon actuation of an electrical control module. No manual
       assembling and/or adjusting of the hose is required, although manual adjustment of the
       hose extension length amount may be optionally provided. The automatic adjustment is
       independently operable regardless of the operating condition of the vacuum cleaner,
       for example, the extension and retraction of the hose is controllable without the need of
       switching on or off the vacuum pump. Accordingly, the user may electrically adjust the
       length of the hose to position the suction head at any desired location to be cleaned
       without the need to power off the vacuum pump of the cleaner. The automatic

       extension and retraction also negates any manual locking and unlocking steps to the
       extendable or movable parts of the guide units and/or hose, which may otherwise
       interfere with the vacuum cleaning process. In addition, the automatic extension and
       retraction of the hose can be continuously controlled, that is, the length adjustment is
       not be restricted by any preset adjustment points or sessions of extension or retraction,
       but has an infinite length adjustability between its maxima and minima. The re
       tractability of the hose further enables a more compact configuration of the vacuum
       cleaner, which allows easy and convenient handling of the hand-held vacuum cleaner
       during use, as well as to facilitate a more user-friendly storage of the vacuum cleaner
       after use. Furthermore, the clutch system of the present invention enables the
       transmission mechanism to stop automatically when the hose has reached its maximum
       length of extension or its minimum length of retraction. This is of particular sig
       nificance in preventing the transmission mechanism and thus the vacuum cleaner from
       being damaged by excessive extension or retraction, and thus to ensure safety of the
       user.
[0042]   The present description illustrates the principles of the present invention. It will thus
       be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements
       that, although not explicitly described or shown herein, embody the principles of the
       invention and are included within its spirit and scope.
[0043]   Moreover, all statements herein reciting principles, aspects, and embodiments of the
       invention, as well as specific examples thereof, are intended to encompass both
       structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally, it is intended that such
       equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed
       in the future, i.e., any elements developed that perform the same function, regardless of
       structure.
[0044]   While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and
       foregoing description, the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in
       character, it being understood that only exemplary embodiments have been shown and
       described and do not limit the scope of the invention in any manner. It can be ap
       preciated that any of the features described herein may be used with any embodiment.
       The illustrative embodiments are not exclusive of each other or of other embodiments
       not recited herein. Accordingly, the invention also provides embodiments that
       comprise combinations of one or more of the illustrative embodiments described
       above. Modifications and variations of the invention as herein set forth can be made
       without departing from the spirit and scope thereof, and, therefore, only such lim
       itations should be imposed as are indicated by the appended claims.
[0045]   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
       where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,

       the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an
       inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
       presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
[0046]   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
       reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
       common general knowledge in the art.

                              Claims
[Claim 1] A vacuum cleaner, comprising:
          a head portion;
          a body;
          a vacuum module positioned in the body, the vacuum module being
          adapted to generate suction for collecting dust via the head portion;
          a hose member adapted to connect the head portion with the vacuum
          module; and
          a guide member associated with the hose member;
          wherein the guide member is adapted to guide movement of the hose
          member such that, in response to movement of the guide member, the
          hose member automatically extends between a retracted position and an
          extended position to thereby position the head portion relative to the
          body.
[Claim 2] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 1, wherein the guide member is
          extendable along a same direction of extension as the hose member.
[Claim 3] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 1, wherein the guide member
          comprises a plurality of guide units movably associated with one
          another to thereby extend and retract along an extension axis parallel to
          a longitudinal axis of the hose member.
[Claim 4] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 3, wherein the plurality of
          guide units comprises a plurality of elongated sub-units slidably
          connected with one another to thereby extend or retract along the
          extension axis.
[Claim 5] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 3, wherein the plurality of
          guide units comprise a plurality of tubular structures telescopically
          connected with one another to thereby extend or retract along the
          extension axis.
[Claim 6] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 3, wherein at least one of the
          plurality of guide units is positioned relative to the hose member via at
          least one positioning means.
[Claim 7] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 6, wherein the at least one po
          sitioning means is fixedly connected between the hose member and the
          at least one of the plurality of guide units.
[Claim 8] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 6, wherein the positioning
          means is provided at the guide member for supporting position of the
          hose member.

[Claim 9]  The vacuum cleaner according to claim 6, wherein the at least one po
           sitioning means comprises a sleeve member.
[Claim 10] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 3, wherein movement of the
           guide member is controllable by a control module actuatable by electric
           power.
[Claim 11] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 10, wherein the control module
           comprises one or more transmission systems operable under one or
           more of an electric mechanism, a hydraulic mechanism, a pneumatic
           mechanism and an electromagnetic mechanism.
[Claim 12] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 10, wherein the control module
           comprises an elongated member engageable with the plurality of guide
           units to thereby cause movement of the plurality of guide units in
           response to movement of the elongated member.
[Claim 13] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 12, wherein the elongated
           member is arranged to run along at least part of a length of the guide
           member.
[Claim 14] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 12, wherein the elongated
           member is arranged to be positioned within and along a hollow centre
           of the guide member.
[Claim 15] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 12, wherein the elongate
           member is flexible.
[Claim 16] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 14, wherein the elongate
           member is arranged to be closely confined, but moveable within the
           hollow centre of the guide member.
[Claim 17] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 12, wherein the elongated
           member comprises at least one belt member.
[Claim 18] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 17, wherein the belt member is
           a toothed belt member.
[Claim 19] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 17, wherein the belt member is
           engageable with a gear system of the control module to thereby cause
           movement of the plurality of guide units in response to rotational
           movement of the gear system.
[Claim 20] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 19, wherein the control module
           comprises at least one clutch system having at least one clutch plate en
           gageable with the gear system.
[Claim 21] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 20, wherein the at least one
           clutch plate is adapted to be biased against the gear system via one or
           more biasing means.

[Claim 22] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 1, wherein the hose member
           comprises a resilient hose.
[Claim 23] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 1, wherein the hose member
           comprises a stretchable hose.
[Claim 24] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 10, wherein the control module
           is operable independently from the vacuum module.
[Claim 25] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 3, wherein the plurality of
           guide units are manually movable relative to one another to thereby
           extend and retract the guide member along the extension axis.
[Claim 26] The vacuum cleaner according to claim 25, wherein the one or more of
           the plurality of guide units are adapted to be manually positioned
           relative to one another via one or more locking means.










