Compositions and methods for topical application and transdermal delivery of
botulinum toxins
ABSTRACT
A composition for topical application of a botulinum toxin (including botulinum toxin
derivatives) comprises a botulinum toxin and a carrier comprising a polymeric backbone
comprising a long-chain polypeptide or nonpeptidyl polymer having attached positively charged
branching or "efficiency" groups. The invention also relates to methods for reducing muscle
paralysis and other conditions that may be treated with a botulinum toxin, particularly paralysis
of subcutaneous, and most particularly, facial, muscles, by topically applying an effective
amount of the botulinum toxin and carrier, in conjunction, to the subject's skin or epithelium.
Kits for administration are also described.

                                                   I
       COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION AND
                 TRANSDERMAL DELIVERY OF BOTULINUM TOXINS
100011         This application claim the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 60/550,015, filed on March 3, 2004. U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 60/550,015 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The
present application is a divisional application of AU <removed-apn>, which is in turn a
divisional application of AU 2013203502, which is in turn a divisional application of
AU 2011202928, which is in turn a divisional application of AU 2005218665, which is
the Australian National Phase application of PCT/US2005/007524. The entire content of
each of these applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0002]            Skin protects the body's organs from external environmental threats
   and acts as a thermostat to maintain body temperature. It consists of several different
   layers, each with specialized functions. The major layers include the epidermis, the
   dermis and the hypodermis. The epidermis is a stratifying layer of epithelial cells that
   overlies the dennis, which consists of connective tissue. Both the epidermis and the
   dermis are further supported by the hypodermis, an internal layer of adipose tissue.
    100031           The epidermis, the topmost layer of skin, is only 0.1 to 1.5 millimeters
   thick (Inlander, Skin, New York, NY: People's Medical Society, 1-7 (1998)). It
    consists ofkeratinocytes and is divided into several layers based on their state of
    differentiation. The epidermis can be further classified into the stratum corneum and
    the viable epidermis, which consists ofthe granular melphigian andbasal cells. The
    stratum corneum is hygroscopic and requires at least 10% moisture by weight to
    maintain its flexibility and softness. The hygroscopicity is attributable in part to the
    water-holding capacity of keratin. When the horny layer loses its softness and
    flexibility it becomes rough and brittle, resulting in dry skin.

                                                la
[0004]          The debris, which lies just beneath the epidermis, is 1.5 to 4
millimeters thick. It is the thickest of the three layers of the skin. In addition, the
dermis is also home to most of the skin's structures, including sweat and oil glands
(which secrete substances through openings in the skin called pores, or comedos), hair
follicles, nerve endings, and blood and lymph vessels (Inlander, Skin, New York, NY:
People's Medical Society, 1-7 (1998)). However, the main components of the dernis
are collagen and elastin.
 [0005]         The hypodermis is the deepest layer of the skin. It acts both as an
insulator for body heat conservation and as a shock absorber for organ protection
(Inlander, Skin, New York, NY: People's Medical Society, 1-7 (1998)). In addition,

the hypodermis also stores fat for.energy reserves. The pH of skin is normally
between 5 and 6. This acidity is due to the presence of amphoteric amino acids, lactic
acid, and fatty acids from the secretions of the sebaceous glands. The term "acid
mantle" refers to the presence of the water-soluble substances on most regions of the
skin. The buffering capacity of the skin is due in part to these secretions stored in the
skin's horny layer.
 [0006]          Wrinkles, one of the telltale signs of aging, can be caused by
biochemical, histological, and physiologic changes that accumulate from
environmental damage (Benedetto, International Journal of Dennatology, 38:641-655
(1999)). In addition, there are other secondary factors that can cause characteristic
folds, furrows, and creases of facial wrinkles (Stegman et al., The Skin of the Aging
Face Cosmetic Dermatological Surgery, 2 "ded., St. Louis, MO: Mosby Year Book: 5
 15 (1990)). These secondary factors include the constant pull of gravity, frequent and
 constant positional pressure on the skin (i.e., during sleep), and repeated facial
movements caused by the contraction of facial muscles (Stegman et al., The Skin of
the Aging Face Cosmetic Dermatological Surgery, 2          ed., St. Louis, MO: Mosby
Year Book: 5-15 (1990)). Different techniques have been utilized in order potentially
to mollify some of the signs of aging. These techniques range from facial
moisturizers containing alpha hydroxy acids and retinol to surgical procedures and
 injections of neurotoxins.
 [0007]          One of the principal functions of skin is to provide a barrier to the
 transportation of water and substances potentially harmful to normal homeostasis.
 The body would rapidly dehydrate without a tough, semi-permeable skin. The skin
 helps to prevent the entry of harmful substances into the body. Although most
 substances cannot penetrate the barrier, a number of strategies have been developed to
 selectively increase the permeability of skin with variable success.
 [00081          Botulinum toxins (also known as botulin toxins or botulinum
 neurotoxins) are neurotoxins produced by the gram-positive bacteria Clostridium
 botulinumn. They act to produce paralysis of muscles by preventing synaptic
 transmission or release of acetylcholine across the neuromuscular junction, and are
 thought to act in other ways as well. Their action essentially blocks signals that
 nonnally would cause muscle spasms or contractions, resulting in paralysis.
                                              2

[0009]          Botulinum toxin is classified into eight neurotoxins that are
serologically related, but distinct. Of these, seven can cause paralysis, namely
botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A, B, C, D, E, F and G. Each of these is
distinguished by neutralization with type-specific antibodies. Nonetheless, the
molecular weight of the botulinum toxin protein molecule, for all seven of these
active botulinum toxin serotypes, is about 150 kD. As released by the bacterium, the
botulinum toxins are complexes comprising the 150 kD botulinum toxin protein
molecule in question along with associated non-toxin proteins. The botulinum toxin
type A complex can be produced by Clostridia bacterium as 900 kD, 500 kD and 300
kD forms. Botulinum toxin types B and C are apparently produced as only a 700 kD
or 500 kD complex. Botulinum toxin type D is produced as both 300 kD and 500 kD
complexes. Botulinum toxin types E and F are produced as only approximately 300
kD complexes. The complexes (i.e. molecular weight greater than about 150 kD) are
believed to contain a non-toxin hemaglutinin protein and a non-toxin and non-toxic
nonhemaglutinin protein. These two non-toxin proteins (which along with the
botulinum toxin molecule comprise the relevant neurotoxin complex) may act to
provide stability against denaturation to the botulinum toxin molecule and protection
 against digestive acids when toxin is ingested. Additionally, it is possible that the
 larger (greater than about 150 kD molecular weight) botulinum toxin complexes may
 result in a slower rate of diffusion of the botulinum toxin away from a site of
 intramuscular injection of a botulinum toxin complex.
 [00010]          The different serotypes of botulinum toxin vary in the animal species
 that they affect and in the severity and duration of the paralysis they evoke. For
 example, it has been determined that botulinum toxin type A is 500 times more
 potent, as measured by the rate of paralysis produced in the rat, than is botulinum
 toxin type B. Additionally, botulinum toxin type B has been determined to be non
 toxic in primates at a dose of 480 U/kg, about 12 times the primate LD5 0 for type A.
 Due to the molecule size and molecular structure of botulinum toxin, it cannot cross
  stratum comeum and the multiple layers of the underlying skin architecture.
  [0010]          Botulism, the characteristic symptom complex from systemic
  botulinum toxin exposure, has existed in Europe since antiquity. In 1895, Emile P.
  van Ermengem first isolated the anaerobic spore-forming bacillus from raw salted
  pork meat obtained from post-mortem tissue of victims who died of botulism in
                                               3

Belgium. Van Ermengem found the disease to be caused by an extracellular toxin
that was produced by what he called Bacillus botulinus (Van Ermengem, Z Hyyg
Infektionskr, 26:1-56; Rev Infect (1897)). The name was changed in 1922 to
Clostridium botulinum. The name Clostridium was used to reflect the anaerobic
nature of the microorganism and also its morphologic characteristics (Carruthers and
Carruthers, Can J Ophthalmol, 31:389-400 (1996)). In the 1920's, a crude form of
Botulinum toxin type A was isolated after additional outbreaks of food poisoning.
Dr. Herman Sommer at the University of California, San Francisco made the first
 attempts to purify the neurotoxin (Borodic et al., Ophthalmic Plast Recostr Surg,
 7:54-60 (1991)). In 1946, Dr. Edward J. Schantz and his colleagues isolated the
neurotoxin in crystalline form (Schantz et al., In: Jankovi J, Hallet M (Eds) Therapy
with Botulinum Toxin, New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, 41-49 (1994)). By 1949,
 Burgen and his associates were able to demonstrate that the Botulinum toxin blocks
 impulses across the neuromuscular junction (Burgen et al., J Physiol, 109:10-24
 (1949)). Allan B. Scott first used botulinum toxin A (§BTX-A) in monkeys in 1973.
 Scott demonstrated reversible ocular muscle paralysis lasting 3 months (Lamanna,
 Science, 130:763-772 (1959)). Soon afterwards, BTX-A was reported to be a
 successful treatment in humans for strabismus, blepharospasm, and spasmodic
 torticollis (Baron et al., In: Baron EJ, Peterson LR, Finegold SM (Eds), Bailey &
 Scotts Diagnostic Microbiology, St. Louis, MO: Mosby Year Book, 504-523 (1994);
 Carruthers and Carruthers, Adv Dermatol, 12:325-348 (1997); Markowitz, In:
  Strickland GT (Eds) Hunters Tropical Medicine,      7 th ed. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders,
 441-444 (1991)). In 1986, Jean and Alastair Carruthers, a husband and wife team
  consisting of an ocuplastic surgeon and a dermatologist, began to evolve the cosmetic
 use of BTX-A for treatment of movement-associated wrinkles in the glabella area
  (Schantz and Scott, In Lewis GE (Ed) Biomedical Aspects of Botulinum, New York:
  Academic Press, 143-150 (1981)). The Carruthers' use of BTX-A for the treatment of
  wrinkles led to their seminal publication of this approach in 1992 (Schantz and Scott,
  In Lewis GE (Ed) Biomedical Aspects of Botulinum, New York: Academic Press,
  143-150 (1981)). By 1994, the same team reported experiences with other
  movement-associated wrinkles on the face (Scott, Ophthalmol, 87:1044-1049 (1980)).
  This in turn led to the birth of the era of cosmetic BTX-A treatment.
                                                4

[0011]           Botulinum toxin type A is said to be the most lethal natural biological
agent known to man. Spores of C. botulinum are found in soil and can grow in
improperly sterilized and sealed food containers. Ingestion of the bacteria can cause
botulism, which can be fatal. At the same time, the muscle-paralyzing effects of
botulinum toxin have been used for therapeutic effects. Controlled administration of
botulinum toxin has been used to provide muscle paralysis to treat conditions, for
example, neuromuscular disorders characterized by hyperactive skeletal muscles.
 Conditions that have been treated with botulinum toxin include hemifacial spasm,
 adult onset spasmodic torticollis, anal fissure, blepharospasm, cerebral palsy, cervical
 dystonia, migraine headaches, strabismus, temperomandibular joint disorder, and
 various types of muscle cramping and spasms. More recently the muscle-paralyzing
 effects of botulinum toxin have been taken advantage of in therapeutic and cosmetic
 facial applications such as treatment of wrinkles, frown lines, and other results of
 spasms or contractions of facial muscles.
 [0012]           Topical application of botulinum toxin would provide for a safer and
 more desirable treatment alternative due to the painless nature of application, the
 larger treatment surface area that can be covered, the ability to fonnulate a pure toxin
 with higher specific activity, the reduced training necessary for applying the
 botulinum therapeutic, the smaller doses that would be necessary to produce the
 desired effect, and the lack of a requirement for large wells of toxin to reach a
 therapeutic clinical result. An effective means for transdermal delivery of botulinum
 toxin, as well as an effective means for administering botulinum toxin to treat or
 prevent a number of conditions that does not require injection is thus highly desirable.
                           SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [0013]          This invention relates to new compositions comprising a botulinum
  toxin, more specifically to such compositions that enable the transport or delivery of a
  botulinum toxin through the skin or epithelium (also referred to as "transdermal
  delivery"), and that therefore may be used as topical applications for providing a
  botulinum toxin to a subject, for various therapeutic, aesthetic and/or cosmetic
  purposes, as described herein.
   [0014]         One aspect of this invention is to provide a composition containing a
  botulinum toxin and a carrier. The carrier has a polymeric backbone with attached
                                               5

positively charged branching groups. The association between the carrier and the
botulinum toxin is non-covalent.
[00151          Another aspect of this invention is to provide a kit for administration of
a botulinum toxin to a subject. The kit includes a botulinum toxin present in an
effective amount for transdermal delivery thereof, and a carrier that has a polymeric
backbone with attached positively charged branching groups. The association
between the carrier and the botulinum toxin is non-covalent.
[0016]          Yet another aspect of this invention is to provide a kit for
administration of a botulinum toxin to a subject. The kit includes a device for
delivering the botulinum toxin to the skin and a composition containing a carrier
having a polymeric backbone with attached positively charged branching groups
selected from - (gly)li-(arg)n2, HIV-TAT and fragments thereof, and Antennapedia
PTD, in which the subscript n1 is an integer of from 0 to about 20, and the subscript
n2 is independently an odd integer of from about 5 to about 25.
 [0017]         This invention also provides a method of administering a botulinum
toxin to a subject involving topically applying to the skin or epithelium of the subject
the botulinum toxin in conjunction with an effective amount of a carrier. The carrier
has a polymeric backbone with attached positively charged branching groups, and
 associates non-covalently with the botulinum toxin.
 [0018]         In one aspect, this invention relates to a composition comprising a
 botulinum toxin (as defined herein) and a carrier comprising a positively charged
 "backbone" having positively charged branching or "efficiency" groups, as described
 herein. Most preferably the positively charged carrier is a long-chain positively
 charged polypeptide or a positively charged nonpeptidyl polymer, for example, a
 polyalkyleneimine. The invention further relates to a method for producing a biologic
 effect such as muscle paralysis, reducing hypersecretion or sweating, treating
 neurologic pain or migraine headache, reducing muscle spasms, preventing or
 reducing acne, or reducing or enhancing an immune response, by topically applying
 an effective amount of such a composition, preferably to the skin, of a subject or
 patient in need of such treatment. The invention also relates to a method for
 producing an aesthetic or cosmetic effect, for example by topical application of
 botulinum toxin to the face instead of by injection into facial muscles.
                                             6

[00191           This invention also provides kits for preparing or formulating a
composition that comprises the carrier and the botulinum toxin, as well as such
additional items that are needed to produce a usable fonnulation, or a premix that may
in turn be used to produce such a formulation. Alternatively the kit comprises means
for separately but in conjunction administering the botulinum toxin and the carrier to
a subject.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0020]          Figure 1 represents the results of an experiment demonstrating
 efficiency of transdermal delivery of botulinum toxin using a composition of the
invention comprising a peptide backbone.
 [0021]          Figure 2 is a photograph depicting the state of the hind limbs of a
 mouse in which the area of one limb was treated with a composition of the invention
 and the area of the other was treated with another botulinum toxin-containing
 composition that did not contain a carrier according to the invention.
 [0022]          Figure 3 is a photograph depicting wrinkles on subject's forehead
 before and after treatment with "Essentia Botox lotion" topically.
  [0023]      -   Figure 4 shows a Mikrosil cast of the forehead (A) after topical
 treatment of wrinkles with "Essentia Botox Lotion", and (b) before treatment. These
 Mikrosil casts, which are useful because they minimize artifacts that can result from
 photographing the actual subject, clearly show that the untreated side has deeper
 wrinkles.
  [0024]          Figure 5 shows photographs depicting Minor's starch/iodine test
  performed on subject's forehead five days after application of "Essentia Botox
  Lotion" (A) and a control lotion (B). The control lotion contained a positively
  charged polylysine backbone with a molecular weight of about 21,000 and with TAT
  branching groups. These pictures were taken two minutes after application.
   [0025]         Figure 6 is the same as Figure 5, but except that they were taken after
  four minutes had elapsed. .
   [0026]         Figure 7 shows the dose area used in the axillary hyperhidrosis
   studies. Note that the dose area extends one centimeter beyond the area of the skin
   covered by axillary hair.
                                              7

[0027]          Figure 8a represents the results of an experiment demonstrating
efficiency of botulinum toxin therapeutically delivered across intact skin as a topical
agent using a short peptidyl carrier for the treatment of axillary hyperhidrosis on
human subjects. Graph depicts significant reduction in amount of sweat (mg per 5
minutes) measured gravimetrically 4 weeks after treatment with Botox plus a short
peptidyl carrier or carrier alone. Results are 4 week values as ratio to baseline value
for same group, with significance determined by Wilcoxon analysis with P<0.05.
N=10 patients. Figure 8b represents the results of an experiment demonstrating
efficiency of botulinum toxin therapeutically delivered across intact skin as a topical
agent using a short peptidyl carrier for the treatment of axillary hyperhidrosis on
human subjects. Graph depicts significant reduction in amount of sweat (mg per 5
minutes) measured gravimetrically 4 weeks after treatment with Botox plus a short
peptidyl carrier or carrier alone. Results are treatment values as ratio to control value
for both timepoints, with significance determined by Wilcoxon analysis with P<0.05.
N=10 patients.
[0028]          Figure 9 shows photographs depicting Minor's starch/iodine test
before and after treatement with "Essentia Botox lotion" topically for the treatment of
axillary hyperhidrosis. Starch/iodine test at Baseline vs. 2 week is shown where right
axilla was treated with "Essentia Botox lotion" (a and c) and left axilla was applied
with the control (b and d) for subject #12. These photographs illustrate typical
benefits observed after treatment with carrier+botox in starch iodine. Although some
crossover is observed on the control side (consistent with 25% reduction in
gravimetric data), significant reductions are afforded with treatment (consistent with
65% reduction in gravimetric data on treated side).
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0029]          This invention provides compositions and methods for delivery,
particularly transdermal delivery, of a botulinum toxin by topical application of an
appropriate formulation.
[0030]          According to the present invention, a positively charged carrier
molecule having efficiency groups, as described herein, has been found suitable as a
transport system for a botulinum toxin, enabling that toxin to be administered
                                             8

transdermally to muscles and/or other skin-associated structures. The transport occurs
without covalent modification of the botulinum toxin.
[0031]          By "positively charged" is meant that the carrier has a positive charge
under at least some solution-phase conditions, more preferably under at least some
physiologically compatible conditions More specifically, "positively charged" as
used herein, means that the group in question contains functionalities that are charged
under all pH conditions, for instance, a quaternary amine, or contains a functionality
which can acquire positive charge under certain solution-phase conditions, such as pH
changes in the case of primary amines. More preferably, "positively charged" as used
herein refers to those groups that have the behavior of associating with anions over
physiologically compatible conditions. Polymers with a multiplicity of positively
charged moieties need not be homopolymers, as will be apparent to one skilled in the
art. Other examples of positively charged moieties are well known in the prior art and
can be employed readily, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
 [0032]         Generally, the positively-charged carrier (also referred to as a
"positively charged backbone") is typically a linear chain of atoms, either with groups
in the chain carrying a positive charge at physiological pH, or with groups carrying a
positive charge attached to side chains extending from the backbone. Preferably, the
positively charged backbone itself will not have a defined enzymatic or therapeutic
biologic activity. The linear backbone is a hydrocarbon backbone which is, in some
embodiments, interrupted by heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur,
silicon and phosphorus. The majority of backbone chain atoms are usually carbon.
Additionally, the backbone will often be a polymer of repeating units (e.g., amino
acids, poly(ethyleneoxy), poly(propyleneamine), polyalkyleneimine, and the like) but
can be a heteropolymer. In one group of embodiments, the positively charged
backbone is a polypropyleneamine wherein a number of the amine nitrogen atoms are
present as ammonium groups (tetra-substituted) carrying a positive charge. In another
embodiment, the positively charged backbone is a nonpeptidyl polymer, which may
be a hetero- or homo-polymer such as a polyalkyleneimine, for example a
polyethyleneimine or polypropyleneimine, having a molecular weight of from about
 10,000 to about 2,500,000, preferably from about 100,000 to about 1,800,000, and
most preferably from about 500,000 to about 1,400,000. In another group of
embodiments, the backbone has attached a plurality of side-chain moieties that
                                            9         ,

include positively charged groups (e.g., ammonium groups, pyridinium groups,
phosphonium groups, sulfonium groups, guanidinium groups, or amidinium groups).
The sidechain moieties in this group of embodiments can be placed at spacings along
the backbone that are consistent in separations or variable. Additionally, the length of
the sidechains can be similar or dissimilar. For example, in one group of
embodiments, the sidechains can be linear or branched hydrocarbon chains having
from one to twenty carbon atoms and terminating at the distal end (away from the
backbone) in one of the above-noted positively charged groups. In all aspects of the
present invention, the association between the carrier and the biologically active agent
is by non-covalent interaction, non-limiting examples of which include ionic
interactions, hydrogen bonding, van der Waals forces, or combinations thereof.
 [0033]          In one group of embodiments, the positively charged backbone is a
polypeptide having multiple positively charged sidechain groups (e.g., lysine,
arginine, omithine, homoarginine, and the like). Preferably, the polypeptide has a
molecular weight of from about 10,000 to about 1,500,000, more preferably from
 about 25,000 to about 1,200,000, most preferably from about 100,000 to about
 1,000,000. One of skill in the art will appreciate that when amino acids are used in
this portion of the invention, the sidechains can have either the D- or L-form (R or S
 configuration) at the center of attachment. Alternatively, the backbone can be an
 analog of a polypeptide such as a peptoid. See, for example, Kessler, Angew. Chen.
Int. Ed. Engl. 32:543 (1993); Zuckermann et al. Chemtracts-Macromol.Chen. 4:80
 (1992); and Simon et al. Proc.Nat'l. A cad. Sci. USA 89:9367 (1992)). Briefly, a
peptoid is a polyglycine in which the sidechain is attached to the backbone nitrogen
 atoms rather than the a-carbon atoms. As above, a portion of the sidechains will
 typically tenninate in a positively charged group to provide a positively charged
backbone component. Synthesis of peptoids is described in, for example, U.S. Patent
No. 5,877,278, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. As the term
 is used herein, positively charged backbones that have a peptoid backbone
 construction are considered "non-peptide" as they are not composed of amino acids
 having naturally occurring sidechains at the a-carbon locations.
 [0034]           A variety of other backbones can be used employing, for example,
 steric or electronic mimics of polypeptides wherein the amide linkages of the peptide
 are replaced with surrogates such as ester linkages, thioamides (-CSNH-), reversed
                                             10

thioamide (-NHCS-), aminomethylene (-NHCH 2 -) or the reversed methyleneamino
(-CH 2NH-) groups, keto-methylene (-COCH 2-) groups, phosphinate (-PO2 RCH2 -),
phosphonamidate and phosphonamidate ester (-PO 2RNH-), reverse peptide
 (-NHCO-), trans-alkene (-CR=CH-), fluoroalkene (-CF=CH-), dimethylene
 (-CH 2 CH 2 -), thioether (-CH 2 S-), hydroxyethylene (-CH(OH)CH 2 -), methyleneoxy
 (-CH 2 0-), tetrazole (CN 4), sulfonamido (-SO2NH-), methylenesulfonamido
 (-CHRSO 2NH-), reversed sulfonamide (-NHS0 2-), and backbones with malonate
 and/or gem-diamino-alkyl subunits, for example, as reviewed by Fletcher et al.
 ((1998) Chem. Rev. 98:763) and detailed by references cited therein. Many of the
 foregoing substitutions result in approximately isosteric polymer backbones relative
 to backbones formed from a-amino acids.
 [00351            In each of the backbones provided above, sidechain groups can be
 appended that carry a positively charged group. For example, the sulfonamide-linked
 backbones (-SO 2NH- and -NHSO 2-) can have sidechain groups attached to the
 nitrogen atoms. Similarly, the hydroxyethylene (-CH(OH)CH 2-) linkage can bear a
  sidechain group attached to the hydroxy substituent. One of skill in the art can readily
  adapt the other linkage chemistries to provide positively charged sidechain groups
 using standard synthetic methods.
  [0036]            In one embodiment, the positively charged backbone is a polypeptide
  having branching groups (also referred to as efficiency groups). As used herein, an
  efficiency group or branching group is any agent that has the effect of promoting the
  translocation of the positively charged backbone through a tissue or cell membrane.
  Non-limiting examples of branching or efficiency groups include -(gly)nl-(arg)n2,
  HIV-TAT or fragments thereof, or the protein transduction domain of Antennapedia,
  or a fragment thereof, in which the subscript n1 is an integer of from 0 to 20, more
  preferably 0 to 8, still more preferably 2 to 5, and the subscript n2 is independently an
  odd integer of from about 5 to about 25, more preferably about 7 to about 17, most
  preferably about 7 to about 13. Still further preferred are those embodiments in which
  the HIV-TAT fragment has the formula (gly)p-RGRDDRRQRRR-(gly)q,
   (gly)p-YGRKKRRQRRR-(gly)q or (gly)p-RIKRRQRRR-(gly)q wherein the
   subscripts p and q are each independently an integer of from 0 to 20 and the fragment
   is attached to the backbone via either the C-terminus or the N-terminus of the
   fragment. Preferred HIV-TAT fragments are those in which the subscripts p and q are
                                                11

each independently integers of from 0 to 8, more preferably 2 to 5. In another
preferred embodiment the positively charged side chain or branching group is the
Antennapedia (Antp) protein transduction domain (PTD), or a fragment thereof that
retains activity. Preferably the positively charged carrier includes side-chain
positively charged branching groups in an amount of at least about 0.05 %, as a
percentage of the total carrier weight, preferably from about 0.05 to about 45 weight
%, and most preferably from about 0.1 to about 30 weight %. For positively charged
branching groups having the formula -(gly)nrl-(arg)n2, the most preferred amount is
from about 0.1 to about 25 %.
 [0037]          In another embodiment, the backbone portion is a polylysine and
positively charged branching groups are attached to the lysine sidechain amino
groups. The polylysine may have a molecular weight of from about 10,000 to about
 1,500,000, preferably from about 25,000 to about 1,200,000, and most preferably
 from about 100,000 to about 1,000,000. It can be any of the commercially available
 (Sigma Chemical Company, St. Louis, Missouri, USA) polylysines such as, for
 example, polylysine having MW > 70,000, polylysine having MW of 70,000 to
 150,000, polylysine having MW 150,000 to 300,000 and polylysine having MW >
 300,000. The selection of an appropriate polylysine will depend on the remaining
 components of the composition and will be sufficient to provide an overall net
 positive charge to the composition and provide a length that is preferably from one to
 four times the combined length of the negatively charged components. Preferred
 positively charged branching groups or efficiency groups include, for example, -gly
 gly-gly-arg-arg-arg-arg-arg-arg-arg (-Gly 3Arg7 ) or HIV-TAT. In another preferred
 embodiment the positively charged backbone is a longschain polyalkyleneimine such
 as a polyethyleneimine, for example, one having a molecular weight of about
  1,000,000.
  [0038]          The positively charged backbones or carrier molecules comprising
 polypeptides or polyalkyleneimines, having the branching groups described above,
  are novel compounds and form an aspect of this invention.
  [0039]          In one embodiment of the invention, only a positively charged carrier
 that has positively charged branching groups is necessary for transdermal delivery of
 the botulinum toxin. In certain embodiments, the positively charged carrier is a
 polypeptide (e.g., lysine, arginine, ornithine, homoarginine, and the like) having
                                              12

multiple positively charged side-chain groups, as described above. Preferably, the
polypeptide has a molecular weight of at least about 10,000. In another embodiment,
the positively charged carrier is a nonpeptidyl polymer such as a polyalkyleneimine
having multiple positively charged side-chain groups having a molecular weight of at
least about 100,000. Such polyalkyleneimines include polyethylene- and
polypropyleneimines. In either instance, for use as the sole necessary agent for
transdermal delivery the positively charged carrier molecule includes positively
charged branching or efficiency groups, comprising -(gly)ni-(arg)n2, , in which the
 subscript n1 is an integer of from 0 to 20 more preferably 0 to 8, still more preferably
 2 to 5, and the subscript n2 is independently an odd integer of from about 5 to about
 25, more preferably from about 7 to about 17, and most preferably from about 7 to
 about 13, HIV-TAT or fragments thereof, or Antennapedia PTD or a fragment
 thereof. Preferably the side-chain or branching groups have the general formula
 (gly) 1 l-(arg)n2 as described above. Other preferred embodiments are those in which
 the branching or efficiency groups are HIV-TAT fragments that have the formula
 (gly)p-RGRDDRRQRRR-(gly)q, (gly)p-YGRKKRRQRRR-(gly)q, or
 (gly)p-RKKRRQRRR-(gly)q, wherein the subscripts p and q are each independently
 an integer of from 0 to 20 and the fragment is attached to the carrier molecule via
 either the C-tenninus or the N-terminus of the fragment. The side branching groups
 can have either the D- or L-form (R or S configuration) at the center of attachment.
 Preferred HIV-TAT fragments are those in which the subscripts p and q are each
  independently integers of from 0 to 8, more preferably 2 to 5. Other preferred
  embodiments are those in which the branching groups are Antennapedia PTD groups
  or fragments thereof that retain the group's activity. These are known in the art, for
  instance, from Console et al., J. Biol. Chem. 278:35109 (2003). Preferably, the
  positively charged carrier includes side-chain positively charged branching groups in
  an amount of at least about 0.05 %, as a percentage of the total carrier weight,
  preferably from about 0.05 to about 45 weight %, and most preferably from about 0.1
  to about 30 weight %. For positively charged branching groups having the formula
  (gly)nl-(arg)n2, the most preferred amount is from about 0.1 to about 25 %.
   [00401           In another embodiment, the carrier is a polylysine with positively
   charged branching groups attached to the lysine side-chain amino groups. The
  polylysine used in this particularly embodiment can be any of the commercially
                                              13

available (Sigma Chemical Company, St. Louis, Missouri, USA, e.g.) polylysines
such as, for example, polylysine having MW > 70,000, polylysine having MW of
70,000 to 150,000, polylysine having MW 150,000 to 300,000 and polylysine having
MW > 300,000. However, preferably the polylysine has MW of at least about 10,000.
Preferred positively charged branching groups or efficiency groups include, for
example, -gly-gly-gly-arg-arg-arg-arg-arg-arg-arg (-Gly 3Arg7 ), HIV-TAT or
fragments of it, and Antennapedia PTD or fragments thereof.
[0041]           In other embodiments of this invention, the carrier is a relatively short
polylysine or polyethyleneimine (PEI) backbone (which may be linear or branched)
and which has positively charged branching groups. Such carriers are useful for
minimizing uncontrolled aggregation of the backbones and botulinum toxin in a
therapeutic composition, which causes the transport efficiency to decrease
dramatically. When the carrier is a relatively short linear polylysine or PEI backbone,
the backbone will have a molecular weight of less than 75,000, more preferably less
than 30,000, and most preferably, less than 25,000. When the carrier is a relatively
 short branched polylysine or PEI backbone, however, the backbone will have a
 molecular weight less than 60,000, more preferably less than 55,000, and most
 preferably less than 50,000. If, however, partitioning agents as described herein are
 included in the composition, the molecular weight of the branched polylysine and PEI
 backbones may be up to 75,000, while the molecular weight of the linear polylysine
 and PEI backbones may be up to 150,000.
  [00421          The term "botulinum toxin" as used herein is meant to refer to any of
 the known types of botulinum toxin, whether produced by the bacterium or by
 recombinant techniques, as well as any such types that may be subsequently
 discovered including engineered variants or fusion proteins. As mentioned above, at
 the present time, seven immunologically distinct botulinum neurotoxins have been
  characterized, namely botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A, B, C, D, E, F and G, each of
 which is distinguished by neutralization with type-specific antibodies. The botulinum
  toxin serotypes are available from Sigma-Aldrich and from Metabiologics, Inc.
  (Madison, Wisconsin), as well as from other sources. The different serotypes of
  botulinum toxin vary in the animal species that they affect and in the severity and
  duration of the paralysis they evoke. At least two types of botulinum toxin, types A
  and B, are available commercially in formulations for treatment of certain conditions.
                                             14

Type A, for example, is contained in preparations of Allergan having the trademark
BOTOX@ and of Ipsen having the trademark DYSPORT@, and type B is contained
in preparations of Elan having the trademark MYOBLOC@.
[00431          The botulinum toxin used in the compositions of this invention can
alternatively be a botulinum toxin derivative, that is, a compound that has botulinum
toxin activity but contains one or more chemical or functional alterations on any part
or on any chain relative to naturally occurring or recombinant native botulinum
toxins. For instance, the botulinum toxin may be a modified neurotoxin(e.g., a
neurotoxin which has at least one of its amino acids deleted, modified or replaced, as
compared to a native, or a recombinantly produced neurotoxin or a derivative or
fragment thereof). For instance, the botulinum toxin may be one that has been
modified in a way that, for instance, enhances its properties or decreases undesirable
side effects, but that still retains the desired botulinum toxin activity. The botulinum
toxin may be any of the botulinum toxin complexes produced by the bacterium, as
described above. Alternatively, the botulinum toxin may be a toxin prepared using
recombinant or synthetic chemical techniques (e.g. a recombinant peptide, a fusion
protein, or a hybrid neurotoxin, as prepared from subunits or domains of different
botulinum toxin serotypes (see U.S. patent 6,444,209, for instance)). The botulinum
toxin may also be a portion of the overall molecule that has been shown to possess the
necessary botulinum toxin activity, and in such case may be used per se or as part of a
 combination or conjugate molecule, for instance a fusion protein. Additionally, the
botulinum toxin may be in the form of a botulinum toxin precursor, which may itself
be non-toxic, for instance a nontoxic zinc protease that becomes toxic on proteolytic
 cleavage.
 [0044]          This invention also contemplates the general use of combinations and
 mixtures of botulinum toxins, although due to their differing nature and properties,
 mixtures of botulinum toxin serotypes are not generally administered at this time in
 the health-care or cosmetic industries.
 [0045]          Compositions of this invention are preferably in the form of products
 to be applied to the skin or epithelium of subjects or patients, i.e. humans or other
 mammals in need of the particular treatment. The term "in need" is meant to include
 both pharmaceutical or health-related needs, for example, treating conditions
 involving undesirable facial muscle spasms, as well as cosmetic and subjective needs,
                                                15

for example, altering or improving the appearance of facial tissue. In general the
compositions are prepared by mixing the botulinum toxin with the carrier, and usually
with one or more additional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients. In
their simplest form they may contain a simple aqueous pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier or diluent, such as buffered saline. However, the compositions may contain
other ingredients typical in topical pharmaceutical or cosmeceutical compositions,
including a dermatologically or pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, vehicle or
medium, (i.e. a carrier, vehicle or medium that is compatible with the tissues to which
they will be applied.) The term "dermatologically or pharmaceutically acceptable,"
as used herein, means that the compositions or components thereof so described are
 suitable for use in contact with these tissues or for use in patients in general without
undue toxicity, incompatibility, instability, allergic response, and the like. As
 appropriate, compositions of the invention may comprise any ingredient
 conventionally used in the fields under consideration, and particularly in cosmetics
 and dermatology. The compositions also may include a quantity of a small anion,
 preferably a polyvalent anion, for example, phosphate, aspartate, or citrate.
 [0046]           In terms of their form, compositions of this invention may include
 solutions, emulsions (including microemulsions), suspensions, creams, lotions, gels,
 powders, or other typical solid or liquid compositions used for application to skin and
 other tissues where the compositions may be used. Such compositions may contain,
 in addition to the botulinum toxin and carrier, other ingredients typically used in such
 products, such as antimicrobials, moisturizers and hydration agents, penetration
 agents, preservatives, emulsifiers, natural or synthetic oils, solvents, surfactants,
 detergents, , emollients, antioxidants, fragrances, fillers, thickeners, waxes, odor
 absorbers, dyestuffs, coloring agents, powders, , and optionally including anesthetics,
 anti-itch additives, botanical extracts, conditioning agents, darkening or lightening
 agents, glitter, humectants, mica, minerals, polyphenols, silicones or derivatives
 thereof, sunblocks, vitamins, and phytomedicinals.
  [0047]           In particularly preferred embodiments, the compositions include
 gelling agents and/or viscosity-modifying agents. These agents are generally added to
 increase the viscosity of the composition, so as to make the application of the
 composition easier and more accurate. Additionally, these agents help to prevent the
 aqueous botulinum toxin/carrier solution from drying out, which tends to cause a
                                               16

decrease in the activity of the botulinum toxin. Particularly preferred agents are
those that are uncharged and do not interfere with the botulinum toxin activity or the
efficiency of the toxin-carrier complexes in crossing skin. The gelling agents may be
certain cellulose-based gelling agents, such as hydroxypropyleellulose (HPC) for
example. In some embodiments, the botulinum toxin/carrier complex is formulated in
a composition having 2-4% HPC. Alternatively, the viscosity of a solution
containing a botulinum toxin/carrier complex may be altered by adding polyethylene
glycol (PEG). In other embodiments, the botulinum toxin/carrier solution is
combined with pre-mixed viscous agents, such as Cetaphil@ moisturizer.
 [0048]          The compositions of this invention may optionally include partitioning
agents. As used herein, a "partitioning agent" is any substance or additive that has the
property of preventing or minimizing unwanted or uncontrolled aggregation of the
botulinum toxin with the carriers of this invention. Partitioning agents may be useful,
for example, when a concentrated botulinum toxin solution must be employed due to
volume constraints. In these cases, the partitioning agent keeps the botulinum toxin
dispersed, thereby preventing aggregation of the toxin that would otherwise occur
without the partioning agent. Generally, a partitioning agent is (1) non-irritating, (2)
does not destroy the botulinum toxin, (3) does not confer any increase in permeability,
(4) affords reliable and stable particle sizes, (5) is uncharged, and (6) does not
interfere with complexes of the toxin and the transdermal carrier. An example of a
suitable partitioning agent is ethanol (EtOH). In preferred embodiments, the EtOH is
less than 20% of the composition, and most preferably, less than 5% of the
composition.
 [0049]          By way of example, if volume constraints require reconstituting 100 U
of botulinum toxin in 0.5 ml of solution, rather than 2.5 ml, one typically observes
that the botulinum toxin will exhibit undesirable aggregation, and thus lowered
activity. However, by adding 1% EtOH as a dispersing agent, fully activity is
maintained even after 24 hours at this concentration. As another example, Botox@ at
 1.0 ml 0.9% NaCl reconstitution has full activity, while reconstitution at 0.5 ml in 1%
and 5% EtOH plus 0.9% NaCl produces solutions with full activity.
 [0050]          In certain embodiments of this invention, oligo- or polyanion bridges
are added to the botulinum toxin compositions to improve the complexation of the
toxin with a positively charged backbone carrier. As is well known in the art,
                                             17

botulinum toxin is actually a complex of different proteins, some of which are
positively charged, and some of which are negatively charged. Because the exact
distribution of the components of the toxin varies depending on the source of the
toxin, it may be that botulinum toxin from certain sources has a lower propensity for
complexation with the positively charged backbones described herein. However, one
aspect of this invention is the discovery that by adding an oligo- or polyanion bridge
to such botulinum toxins, the efficiency and efficacy of topical administration is
increased dramatically. Suitable examples of such oligo-/polyanion bridges include
sodium phosphate (5%), PBS or 5% poly-L-aspartate (e.g., with a MW of 3000).
 [0051]            Compositions according to this invention may be in the form of
 controlled-release or sustained-release compositions, wherein the botulinum toxin and
 the carrier are encapsulated or otherwise contained within a material such that they
 are released onto the skin in a controlled manner over time. The botulinum toxin and
 carrier may be contained within matrixes, liposomes, vesicles, microcapsules,
 microspheres and the like, or within a solid particulate material, all of which is
 selected and/or constructed to provide release of the botulinum toxin over time. The
 botulinum toxin and the carrier may be encapsulated together (e.g., in the same
 capsule) or separately (in separate capsules).
  [00521           Using the compositions described herein, botulinum toxin can be
 delivered to muscles underlying the skin, or to glandular structures within the skin, in
  an effective amount to produce paralysis, produce relaxation, alleviate contractions,
 prevent or alleviate spasms, reduce glandular output, or other desired effects. Local
  delivery of the botulinum toxin in this manner could afford dosage reductions, reduce
  toxicity and allow more precise dosage optimization for desired effects relative to
  injectable or implantable materials.
   [0053]          The compositions of the invention are applied so as to administer an
  effective amount of the botulinum toxin. The term "effective amount" as used herein
  means an amount of a botulinum toxin as defined above that is sufficient to produce
  the desired muscular paralysis or other biological or aesthetic effect, but that
   implicitly is a safe amount, i.e. one that is low enough to avoid serious side effects.
  Desired effects include the relaxation of certain muscles with the aim of, for instance,
   decreasing the appearance of fine lines and/or wrinkles, especially in the face, or
   adjusting facial appearance in other ways such as widening the eyes, lifting the
                                                 18

corners of the mouth, or smoothing lines that fan out from the upper lip, or the general
relief of muscular tension. The last-mentioned effect, general relief of muscular
tension, can be effected in the face or elsewhere. The compositions of the invention
may contain an appropriate effective amount of the botulinum toxin for application as
a single-dose treatment, or may be more concentrated, either for dilution at the place
of administration or for use in multiple applications. Through the use of the
positively charged carriers of this invention, a botulinum toxin can be administered
transdermally to a subject for treating conditions such as undesirable facial muscle or
other muscular spasms, hyperhidosis, acne, or conditions elsewhere in the body in
which relief of muscular ache or spasms is desired. The botulinum toxin is
 administered topically for transdermal delivery to muscles or to other skin-associated
 structures. The administration may be made, for example, to the legs, shoulders, back
 (including lower back), axilla, palms, feet, neck, groin, dorsa of the hands or feet,
 elbows, upper arms, knees, upper legs, buttocks, torso, pelvis, or any other part of the
 body where administration of the botulinum toxin is desired.
 [0054]          Administration of botulinum toxin may also be carried out to treat
 other conditions, including treating of neurologic pain, prevention or reduction of
 migraine headache or other headache pain, prevention or reduction of acne,
 prevention or reduction of dystonia or dystonic contractions (whether subjective or
 clinical), prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with subjective or clinical
 hyperhidosis, reducing hypersecretion or sweating, reducing or enhancing immune
 response, or treatment of other conditions for which administration of botulinum toxin
 by injection has been suggested or performed.
  [00551         Administration of botulinum toxin or other therapeutic proteins
  described herein may also be carried out for immunization-related purposes.
  Surprisingly, administration of botulinum toxin described herein may be carried out to
 reduce immune responses. More specifically, this invention allows a botulinum toxin
  to be delivered by an altered route of administration, thereby changing the complex
  antigen presentation of the agent. In this way, the invention may be useful to reduce
  immune response to antigens to botulinum toxin, and to facilitate repeat
  administration without immune-related reduction in activity. Alternatively, the
  complex can be prepared and applied topically to enhance an immune response, for
  example to provide immunizations respecting various proteins, for example, for
                                              19

childhood immunizations without injections. For use in connection with immune
related activity, an "effective amount" refers to an amount of the botulinum toxin
sufficient to allow a subject to mount an immune response to the botulinum toxin after
application or a series of applications of it.
 [0056]          Most preferably, the compositions are administered by or under the
direction of a physician or other health care professional. They may be administered
in a single treatment or in a series of periodic treatments over time. For transdermal
delivery of botulinum toxin for the purposes mentioned above, a composition as
 described above is applied topically to the skin at a location or locations where the
 effect is desired. In embodiments were an aqueous botulinum toxin/carrier solution is
 applied directly to the skin, it is preferable to cover the treated area (e.g., with
 Cetaphil@ moisturizer) or occlude the treated area with a barrier (e.g., Telfa), in order
 to prevent the solution from drying out, which would lead to a decrease in toxin
 activity. Because of its nature, most preferably the amount of botulinum toxin
 applied should be applied with care, at an application rate and frequency of
 application that will produce the desired result without producing any adverse or
 undesired results. Accordingly, for instance, topical compositions of the invention
 should be applied at a rate of from about 1U to about 20,OOOU, preferably from about
  1U to about 10,OOOU botulinum toxin per cm2 of skin surface. Higher dosages within
 these ranges could preferably be employed in conjunction with controlled release
 materials, for instance, or allowed a shorter dwell time on the skin prior to removal.
  [0057]          Proper preparation of the skin surface prior to the application of the
 botulinum toxin/carrier composition is important for maintaining the efficacy of the
  solution. For example, the introduction of surfactants on the surface of the skin for
  the purpose of cleaning off surface oils on the skin prior to application is surprisingly
  counterproductive, because the surfactants appear to destroy the activity of the
  botulinum toxin. This occurs even if the skin is subsequently washed with water
  several times before application of the botulinum toxin/carrier solution. Even
  extremely gentle surfactants, such as those found in baby wipes, appear to cause this
  phenomenon. Accordingly, in preferred methods of administering the compositions
  of this invention, the skin is pre-cleaned using water alone. Washing with only water
   also appears to improve the transdermal transport of the botulinum toxin moderately.
                                                20

[0058]            Additionally, the skin may be stripped to reduce the stratum corneum
layer prior to application of the botulinum toxin/carrier complex. In principle, the
process of stripping the skin should lead to enhanced efficiency of transdermal
transport of botulinum toxin. However, the method used to strip the skin is important.
For example, acetone-mediated reduction of the stratun corneum layer in humans or
animals appears to reduce the activity of subsequently applied botulinum toxin. In
contrast, tape stripping (i.e., applying tape on the surface of the skin and then
removing the tape) appears to allow deeper penetation of the botulinum toxin and
dosage reduction in both mouse models and humans. It is presumed that abrasion of
the skin surface (e.g, via the use of abrasive pads) would cause a similar effect as tape
stripping.
 [0059]           This invention also comprises devices for transdermal transmission of
 a composition that contains botulinum toxin and a carrier that has a positively charged
backbone with attached branching groups as defined herein. Such devices may be as
 simple in construction as a skin patch, or may be more complicated devices that
 include means for dispensing and monitoring the dispensing of the composition, and
 optionally means for monitoring the condition of the subject (e.g., monitoring the
 reaction of the subject to the substances being dispensed).
 [0060]           It should be noted that the choice of materials for the construction of
 the device is important. Preferred materials for the construction of delivery devices
 are those that do not lead to a loss of activity of the botulinum toxin/carrier solution,
 either through degradation or unwanted adsorption of the botulinum toxin on a surface
 of the device. Such undesired behavior has been observed, for example, when
 botulinum toxin/carrier in an aqueous solution contacts polypropylene surfaces, but
 not when the botulinum toxin/carrier solution contacts polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
  surfaces.
  [0061]           Generally, the compositions can be pre-formulated and/or pre-installed
  in a device or can be prepared later, for example using a kit that houses the two
  ingredients (botulinum toxin and carrier) separately but provides means for combining
  them at or prior to the time of application. The amount of carrier molecule or the ratio
  of it to the botulinum toxin will depend on which carrier is chosen for use in the
  composition in question. The appropriate amount or ratio of carrier molecule in a
                                               21

given case can readily be determined, for example, by conducting one or more
experiments, such as those described below.
[0062]          In general, the invention also comprises a method for administering a
botulinum toxin to a subject or patient in need thereof. The method includes
comprising topically administering an effective amount of the botulinum toxin in
conjunction with a carrier having a positively charged backbone with attached
positively charged branching groups, as described herein. By "in conjunction with" is
meant that the two components (botulinum toxin and carrier) are administered in a
combination procedure, which may involve either combining them in a composition,
which is subsequently administered to the subject, or administering them separately,
but in a manner such that they act together to provide the requisite delivery of an
effective amount of the therapeutic protein. For example, a composition containing
the carrier may first be applied to the skin of the subject, followed by applying a skin
patch or other device containing the botulinum toxin. The botulinum toxin may be
incorporated in dry form in a skin patch or other dispensing device, while the
positively charged carrier may be applied to the skin surface before application of the
patch so that the two act together, resulting in the desired transdermal delivery. Thus,
the two substances (carrier and botulinum toxin) act in combination or perhaps
interact to form a composition or combination in situ. Accordingly, the invention also
comprises a kit that includes both a device for dispensing botulinum toxin via the skin
and a liquid, gel, cream or the like that contains the carrier or backbone, and that is
suitable for applying to the skin or epithelium of a subject. Kits for administering the
compositions of the inventions, either under direction of a health care professional or
by the patient or subject, may also include a custom applicator suitable for that
purpose.
[0063]          The compositions, kits and methods of this invention allow for the
delivery of a more pure botulinum toxin with higher specific activity and potentially
improved phannacokinetics. In addition, the carrier can act as a stabilizer, reducing
the need for foreign accessory proteins (e.g., human serum albumin ranging from 400
600 mg or recombinant serum albumin ranging from 250-500 mg) and/or
polysaccharide stabilizers, and can afford beneficial reductions in immune responses
to the botulinum toxin. In addition, the compositions are suitable for use in
physiologic environments with pH ranging from about 4.5 to about 6.3, and may thus
                                            22

have such a pH. The compositions according to this invention may be stored either at
room temperature or under refrigerated conditions.
 [0064]           The following are representative examples of the invention. They
demonstrate delivery of functional botulinum neurotoxin complexes across skin
without requiring covalent modification of the neurotoxin to be delivered.
                                        EXAMPLES
                                       EXAMPLE 1.
            Transport of a botulinum toxin in vivo using a peptidyl carrier.
 [0065]           This experiment demonstrates the use of a peptidyl carrier to transport
 a large complex containing an intact labeled protein botulinum toxin across intact skin
 after a single time administration relative to controls.
 Backbone selection:
  [0066]          The positively charged backbone was assembled by conjugating
 Gly 3Arg7 to polylysine (MW 112,000) via the carboxyl of the terminal glycine to free
 amines of the lysine side chains at a degree of saturation of 18% (i.e., 18 out of each
  100 lysine residues is conjugated to a -Gly 3Arg 7). The modified backbone was
 designated "KNR". The control polycation was unmodified polylysine (designated
 "K", Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO) of the same size and from the same lot.
  Therapeutic aZent:
  [00671          Botox@ brand of botulinum toxin A (Allergan) was selected for this
  experiment. It has a molecular weight of approximately 150,000.
 Preparationof samples
  [0068]          The botulinum toxin was reconstituted according to the manufacturer's
  instructions. An aliquot of the protein was biotinylated with a calculated 12-fold
  molar excess of sulfo-NHS-LC biotin (Pierce Chemical). The labeled product was
  designated "Btox-b".
   [0069]          In each case, an excess of polycation was employed to assemble a final
  complex that has an excess of positive charge as in delivery of highly negative large
  nucleotide complexes. A net neutral or positive charge prevents repulsion of the
                                               23

protein complex from highly negative cell surface proteoglycans and extracellular
matrix. Btox-b dose was standardized across all groups, as was total volume and final
pH of the composition to be applied topically. Samples were prepared as follows:
[00701           Group labeled "JMW-7": 2.0 units of Btox-b per aliquot (i.e. 20 U
total) and peptidyl carrier KNR at a calculated MW ratio of 4:1 were mixed to
homogeneity and diluted to 200 microliters with phosphate buffered saline. The
resulting composition was mixed to homogeneity with 1.8 ml of Cetaphil@ lotion and
 aliquoted in 200 microliter portions.
 [00711           Group labeled "JMW-8": 2.0 units of Btox-b per aliquot (i.e. 20 U
 total) and K at a MW ratio of 4:1 were mixed to homogeneity and diluted to 200
 microliters with phosphate buffered saline. The resulting composition was mixed to
 homogeneity with 1.8 ml of Cetaphil and aliquoted in 200 microliter portions.
 Animal experiments to determine transdermaldelivery efficiencies
 after single time treatment with peptidyl carriersand labeledBtox:
  [0072]          Animals were anesthetized via inhalation of isoflurane during
  application of treatments. After being anesthetized, C57 black 6 mice (n=4 per group)
  underwent topical application of a metered 200 microliter dose of the appropriate
  treatment applied to the cranial portion of dorsal back skin (selected because the
  mouse cannot reach this region with mouth or limbs). Animals did not undergo
  depilation. At 30 minutes after the initial treatment, mice were euthanized via
  inhalation of CO 2 , and treated skin segments were harvested at full thickness by
  blinded observers. Treated segments were divided into three equal portions; the
  cranial portion was fixed in 10% neutral buffered fornalin for 12-16 hours then stored
  in 70% ethanol until paraffin embedding. The central portion was snap-frozen and
   employed directly for biotin visualization by blinded observers as summarized below.
   The treated caudal segment was snap frozen for solubilization studies.
   [00731         Biotin visualization was conducted as follows. Briefly, each section
   was immersed for 1 hour in NeutrAvidin@ buffer solution. To visualize alkaline
   phosphatase activity, cross sections were washed in saline four times then immersed
   in NBT/BCIP (Pierce Scientific) for 1 hour. Sections were then rinsed in saline and
   photographed in entirety on a Nikon E600 microscope with plan-apochromat lenses.
                                               24

Data handling and statisticalanalysis:
[0074]            Total positive staining was determined by blinded observer via batch
image analysis using Image Pro Plus software (Media Cybernetics, Silver Spring,
MD) and was normalized to total cross-sectional area to determine percent positive
staining for each. Mean and standard error were subsequently determined for each
group with analysis of significance at 95% confidence in one way ANOVA repeated
measures using Statview software (Abacus, Berkeley, CA).
Results:
 [0075]           The mean cross-sectional area that was positive for biotinylated
botulinum toxin was reported as percent of total area after single-time topical
administration of Btox-b with either KNR ("EB-Btox") or K ("nl"). The results are
presented in the following Table 1 and are illustrated in Figure 1. In Figure 1, the
 area positive for label was determined as percent of total area after three days of once
 daily treatment with "EB-Btox" which contained Btox-b and the peptidyl carrier KNR
 and "nl", which contained Btox-b with polycation K as a control. Mean and standard
 error are depicted for each group.
 Table 1.         Mean and standard error for labeled botulinum toxin area as percent of
 total cross-section after single time topical administration of Btox-b with KNR
 (JMW-7) or K (JMW-8) for 30 minutes.
                         Group           Mean           Std. Error
                         JMW-7           33             5.333334
                         JMW-8           8.666667       0.333334
                                P=0.0001 (Signficantat 99%)
                                        EXAMPLE 2.
                        Therapeutic efficacy of a topical botulinum
                         toxin preparation with a peptidyl carrier.
  [0076]           Example 1 demonstrated that the peptidyl transdermal carrier allowed
  efficient transfer of botulinum toxin after topical administration in a murine model of
  intact skin. However, this experiment did not indicate whether the complex protein
  botulinum toxin was released in a functional form after translocation across skin. The
                                              25

following experiment was thus constructed to evaluate whether botulinum toxin can
be therapeutically delivered across intact skin as a topical agent using this peptidyl
carrier (again, without covalent modification of the protein).
[0077]           The positively charged backbone was again assembled by conjugating
-Gly 3Arg7 to polylysine (MW 112,000) via the carboxyl of the terminal glycine to
free amines of the lysine side chains at a degree of saturation of 18% (i.e., 18 out of
each 100 lysine residues is conjugated to a -Gly 3Arg 7). The modified backbone was
designated "KNR". Control polycation was unmodified polylysine (designated "K",
 Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO) of the same size and from the same lot. The
 same botulinum toxin therapeutic agent was used as in Example 1, and was prepared
in the same manner. Samples were prepared as follows:
 [0078]          Group labeled "JMW-9": 2.0 units of botulinum toxin per aliquot (i.e.
 60 U total) and peptidyl carrier KNR at a calculated MW ratio of 4:1 were mixed to
 homogeneity and diluted to 600 microliters with phosphate buffered saline. The
 resulting composition was mixed to homogeneity with 5.4 ml of Cetaphil and
 aliquoted in 200 microliter portions.
 [0079]          Group labeled "JMW-10": 2.0 units of botulinum toxin per aliquot (i.e.
 60 U total) and K at a MW ratio of 4:1 were mixed to homogeneity and diluted to
 600 microliters with phosphate buffered saline. The resulting composition was mixed
 to homogeneity with 5.4 ml of Cetaphil and aliquoted in 200 microliter portions.
  [0080]          Group labeled "JMW- 11": 2.0 units of botulinum toxin per aliquot (i.e.
 60 U total) without polycation was diluted to 600 microliters with phosphate buffered
 saline. The resulting composition was mixed to homogeneity with 5 .4 in1 of Cetaphil
  and aliquoted in 200 microliter portions.
 Animal experiments to determine therapeuticefficacy after
 single time treatment with peptidyl carriersand botulinum toxin:
  [0081]          Animals were anesthetized via inhalation of isoflurane during
  application of treatments. After being anesthetized, C57 black 6 mice (n=4 per group)
  underwent topical application of metered 400 microliter dose of the appropriate
  treatment applied uniformly from the toes to the mid-thigh. Both limbs were treated,
  and treatments were randomized to either side. Animals did not undergo depilation.
  At 30 minutes after the initial treatment, mice were evaluated for digital abduction
                                              26

 capability according to published digital abduction scores for foot mobility after
 botulinum toxin administration [Aoki, KR. A comparison of the safety margins of
 botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A, B, and F in mice. Toxicon. 2001 Dec; 39(12):
 1815-20]. Mouse mobility was also subjectively assessed.
Data handling and statisticalanalvsis:
 [00821          Digital abduction scores were tabulated independently by two blinded
 observers. Mean and standard error were subsequently determined for each group
 with analysis of significance at 95% confidence in one way ANOVA repeated
 measures using Statview software (Abacus, Berkeley, CA).
Results:
 [0083]          Mean digital abduction scores after single-time topical administration
 of botulinum toxin with KNR ("JMW-9"), K ("JMW- 10") or diluent without
polycation ("JMW-1 1"), are presented in table 2 and illustrated in the representative
photomicrograph of figure 2 below. The peptidyl carrier KNR afforded statistically
 significant functional delivery of the botulinum toxin across skin relative to both
controls, which were comparable to one another. Additional independent repetitions
(total of three independent experiments all with identical conclusions in statistically
significant paralysis from topical botulinum toxin with KNR but not controls) of the
present experiment confirmed the present findings and revealed no significant
differences between topical botulinum toxin with or without K (i.e. both controls).
Interestingly, the mice consistently ambulated toward a paralyzed limb (which
occurred in 100% of treated animals and 0% of controls from either control group).
As shown in Figure 2, a limb treated with botulinum toxin plus the control polycation
polylysine or with botulinum toxin without polycation ("Botox alone") can mobilize
digits (as a defense mechanism when picked up), but the limbs treated with botulinum
toxin plus the peptidyl carrier KNR ("Essentia Botox lotion") could not be moved.
Table 2:         Digital abduction scores 30 minutes after single-time topical
application of botulinum toxin with the peptidyl carrier KNR ("JMW-9"), with a
control polycation K ("JMW-10"), or alone ("JMW-1 1").
                      Group             Mean            Std. Error
                                            27

                      JMW-9             3.333          0.333
                      JMW-10            0.333          0.333
                      JMW-11            0.793          0.300
                             P=0.0351 (Significantat 95o)
Conclusions:
[0084]          This experiment serves to demonstrate that the peptidyl transdermal
carrier can transport a therapeutically effective amount of botulinum therapeutic
across skin without covalent modification of the therapeutic. The experiment also
confirms that botulinum toxin does not function when applied topically in controls.
                                      EXAMPLE 3.
                       Therapeutic efficacy of a topical botulinum
                     toxin preparation with a nonpeptidyl carrier.
[00851           This experiment demonstrates the performance of a non-peptidyl
carrier in the invention.
Methods:
Backbone selection:
 [00861          The positively charged backbone was assembled by conjugating
 Gly 3Arg7 to polyethyleneimine (PEI) MW 1,000,000 via the carboxyl of the terminal
 glycine to free amines of the PEI side chains at a degree of saturation of 30% (i.e., 30
 out of each 100 lysine residues is conjugated to a -Gly 3Arg 7). The modified
 backbone was designated "PEIR" to denote the large nonpeptidyl carrier. Control
 polycation was unmodified PEI (designated "PEI", Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis,
 MO) of the same size and from the same lot. The same botulinum toxin therapeutic
 agent was used as in example 1.
  [0087]         Botulinum toxin was reconstituted from the Botox product according
 to the manufacturer's instructions. In each case, an excess of polycation was
  employed to assemble a final complex that had an excess of positive charge as in
  delivery of highly negative large nucleotide complexes. A net neutral or positive
  charge prevents repulsion of the protein complex from highly negative cell surface
  proteoglycans and extracellular matrix. The botulinum toxin dose was standardized
                                              28

across all groups as was total volume and final pH of the composition to be applied
topically. Samples were prepared as follows:
[0088]           Group labeled "AZ": 2.0 units of botulinum toxin per aliquot (i.e. 60 U
total) and the nonpeptidyl carrier PEIR in ultrapure form at a calculated MW ratio of
 5:1 were mixed to homogeneity and diluted to 600 microliters with phosphate
buffered saline. The resulting composition was mixed to homogeneity with 5.4 ml of
 Cetaphil and aliquoted in 200 microliter portions.
 [0089]           Group labeled "BA": 2.0 units of botulinum toxin per aliqudt (i.e. 60 U
 total) and PEI at a charge ratio of 5:1 were mixed to homogeneity and diluted to 600
 microliters with phosphate buffered saline. The resulting composition was mixed to
 homogeneity with 5.4 ml of Cetaphil and aliquoted in 200 microliter portions.
 Animal experiments to determine therapeutic efficacy after single time treatment:
  [0090]          Animals were anesthetized via inhalation of isoflurane during
  application of treatments. After being anesthetized, C57 black 6 mice (n=3 per group)
  underwent topical application of metered 400 microliter dose of the appropriate
  treatment applied uniformly from the toes to the mid-thigh. Both limbs were treated,
  and treatments were randomized to either side. Animals did not undergo depilation.
  At 30 minutes after the initial treatment, mice were evaluated for digital abduction
   capability according to published digital abduction scores for foot mobility after
  botulinum toxin administration [Aoki, KR. A comparison of the safety margins of
   botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A, B, andF in mice. Toxicon. 2001 Dec; 39(12):
   1815-20]. Mouse mobility was also subjectively assessed.
   Data handling and statisticalanalysis:
   [0091]          Digital abduction scores were tabulated independently by two blinded
   observers. Mean and standard error were subsequently determined for each group
   with analysis of significance at 95% confidence in one way ANOVA repeated
   measures using Statview software (Abacus, Berkeley, CA).
   Results:
    [0092]         Mean digital abduction scores after single-time topical administration
    of botulinum toxin with ultrapure PEIR ("AZ"), or control polycation PEI ("BA"), are
                                               29

presented in table 3 and repetition presented as table 4 (single independent repetition
for this experiment). The nonpeptidyl carrier PEIR afforded statistically significant
functional delivery of botulinum toxin across skin relative to controls. As before,
animals were observed to walk in circles toward the paralyzed limbs.
Table 3.         Digital abduction scores 30 minutes after single-time topical
administration of Botox with ultrapure PEIR ("AZ"), or control polycation PEI
("BA"). Mean and standard error are presented.
                        Group          Mean             Std. Error
                       BA              0.833            0.307
                       AZ              3.917            0.083
                              P=O.0002 (Significantat 990%6)
Table 4.         Digital abduction scores 30 minutes after single-time topical
administration of Botox with ultrapure PEIR ("AZ1"), or control polycation PEI
("BA "). Mean and standard error are presented.
                        Group          Mean             Std. Error
                        BA1            0.333            0.211
                        AZ1            3.833            0.167
                              P=0.0001 (Significantat 99%)
 Conclusions:
 [00931          This experiment demonstrated that the nonpeptidyl transdermal carrier
can transport therapeutic doses of botulinum toxin across skin without prior covalent
modification of the botulinum toxin. These findings complement those with peptidyl
transfer agents. The option of using a nonpeptidyl or a peptidyl carrier to achieve the
therapeutic effect will allow tailoring to specific circumstances, environments, and
methods of application and add to the breadth of the transdermal delivery platform of
 this invention.
                                      EXAMPLE 4.
            Therapeutic efficacy of a topical botulinum toxin preparation
            with peptidyl carrier for forehead hyperhidrosis and wrinkles.
                                             30

[00941            This experiment demonstrates that botulinum toxin can be
therapeutically delivered across intact skin as a topical agent using this peptidyl
carrier for the treatment of forehead hyperhidrosis and wrinkles on human subjects.
ExperimentalProcedurefor ForeheadHyperhidrosis and Wrinkles Studv:
 [00951           Baseline and post-treatment photographs of the subject's forehead
were taken on a blue background using a Nikon D70 camera with Nikon TTL Macro
 speedlight SB29s flash (Nikon, Inc. USA).
 [00961           Baseline and post-treatment videos of the subject's forehead were
 taken on a blue background using a Sony Digital Handycam camcorder.
 [0097]           Minor's starch/iodine test was performed to visualize sweat production
 using 10% topical povidone iodine solution (Walgreen Co., Deerfield, Illinois) and
 Kingsford's 100% corn starch (ACH Food Companies, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee).
 The subject's forehead was painted with an iodine solution using sterile cotton balls
 (Johnson & Johnson Consumer Product Company, Skillman, New Jersey), and then
 allowed to dry completely. The area was lightly dusted with starch powder using
  sterile cotton balls. The sweat was induced with physical activity at ambient room
 temperature. Dark blue-black spots appeared as the sweat dissolved the iodine and
 reacted with starch powder. Baseline and post-treatment photographs of iodine-starch
  test were taken on a blue background using a Nikon D70 camera with Nikon TTL
  Macro-speedlight SB29s flash. The subject's forehead was cleansed with 70% EtOH
  and then deionized water.
   [0098]          The subject's predefined treatment area on the forehead was prepared
  by non-invasive tape stripping method for stratum corneum prior to treatment
  application. Precut tape was applied to the treatment area with firm pressure for few
   seconds. It was removed rapidly by pulling on one corner of the tape. The second
  tape was carefully applied to the same area immediately after the first tape was
   removed. Tape-stripping was repeated 3-5 times.
   Treatment preparation:
   [0099]          The Botox reconstituting solution of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride
   (Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Illinois) plus 5% EtOH plus 5% short chained
   polyaspartate solution solution labeled A-3C (Donlar BioPolymer, Inc. Bedford Park,
                                               31

Illinois) was prepared (i.e., for every 1.0 milliter solution, 900 microliters of sterile
0.9% sodium chloride plus 50 microliters of 100% EtOH plus 50 microliters of short
chained polyaspartate solution). Kn21T was prepared at 1 milligram/milliliter
concentration with 0.9% sodium chloride plus 5% EtOH (i.e., 500 microliters of
Kn21T was aliquoted and 25 microliters of 100% EtOH was added). As used herein,
Kn21T refers to a positively charged polylysine backbone having a molecular weight
 of 21,000 and TAT branching groups. 100 units of Botox (Allergan, Irvine, CA) was
 reconstituted with 1.0 milliliters of reconstituting solution using sterile 3 ml latex free
 syringe with 1 8 G 1 1/2 (Becton Dickinson & Co., Franklin Lakes, New Jersey). The
 reconstituted Botox was carefully mixed by inversion 8 times. 200 units of Botox
 were used for each subject. The "Essentia Botox solution" was prepared with 200
 units of Botox and Kn21T plus 5% EtOH (ie. 2.0 milliters of Botox was added to 500
 microliters of Kn21T plus 25 microliters of 100% EtOH) and sat at room temperature
  for 5 minutes for the complexes to fonm.
  [0100]          The control solution was prepared with reconstituting solution and
  Kn21T plus 5% EtOH (ie. 2.0 ml of reconstituting solution was added to 500
  microliters of Kn2lT plus 25 microliters of 100% EtOH) and kept at room
  temperature.
  Treatment application:
   [01011         The subject reclined on a table with protective covering around the
   eyes, face, and upper body. The treatment was applied evenly to the subject's
   forehead using a pipette and massaged into the skin in circular motion with fingers
   while wearing powder-free, nitrile gloves. The treatment area was covered with a thin
   layer of Cetaphil@ moisturizing cream (Galderma, Fort Worth, TX) and incubated for
   60 minutes. After 60 minute incubation, the treatment was removed with sterile
   gauze pads. The gauze pads and gloves were discarded in a biohazard bag.
   Results:
    [0102]         Figure 3 depicts significant reduction in wrinkle length depth and
   width after topical treatment with Peptidyl carrier and botulinum combination. This
    experiment confirms that topically applied botulinum toxin, when combined with
    transdermal carrier, can afford significant muscular paralysis to afford a cosmetic
                                                32

effect. Figure 4 is a Mikrosil cast of the treated skin (A) versus untreated skin (B).
Wrinkles are visible on the cast of the untreated skin.
[0103]           Figures 5 and 6 show the results of the Minor's starch/iodine test.
Figure 5 shows photos taken two minutes after application, with panel (A)
corresponding to the side treated with Essentia Botox Lotion, and panel (B)
corresponding to the side treated with a control lotion containing Kn21T carrier alone.
Figure 6 is the same as Figure 5, except that it was taken at four minutes. Note the
more pronounced coloration on the control lotion side, indicating that the skin on that
side is secreting more sweat. Also note that the sweating starts earlier on the
untreated side.
 Conclusions:
 [0104]           This example demonstrates that topically applied complexes of
botulinum toxin can afford significant aesthetic benefit in reducing fine and coarse
wrinkles. This transepithelial effect further confirms that muscle paralysis can be
 accomplished with appropriate carriers after topical application of botulinum toxin
 complexes such as those disclosed herein. This example thus indicates that topical
 application of botulinum toxin can lead to relief from muscle spasms such as
 blepharospasm or torticollis as well as relief of muscle spasm-related pain such as
 lower back pain.
                                        EXAMPLE 5
              Therapeutic efficacy of a topical botulinum toxin preparation
                      with peptidyl carrier for axillary hyperhidrosis.
  [0105]           This experiment demonstrates whether botulinum toxin can be
  therapeutically delivered across intact skin as a topical agent using this peptidyl
  carrier for the treatment of axillary hyperhidrosis on human subjects (n=10 axillae per
  group with one axilla treated and one control per patient in a randomized double-blind
  fashion).
  Inclusion criteriafor axillary hyperhidrosisstudy:
   [0106]
       " Age: 18 years or older
       *   Healthy volunteers
                                              33

     "   Informed consent given and signed by the volunteer
     *   Subject willing to follow instruction and return for follow-up visits.
     *   Subject has presence of pre-existing, subjective hyperhidrosis
     e   Subject is NOT pregnant or planning on becoming pregnant within the next 3
         months
     "   Subject lives and/or work in San Francisco or near study area
     *   Subject has NOT had treatment for underarm sweating within the past 6
         months
     e    Subject is NOT planning on having treatment for underarm sweating within
         the next 3 months
Gravimetricmeasurement procedures:
[0107]           As a part of the gravimetric measurement procedure, the subjects were
first acclimated to the testing area. Specifically, each subject sat for 15 minutes at a
room temperature of 72-77 F in the resting position.
 [01081          Axillae preparation: (Powder-free, nitrile gloves were worn for the
following procedures.) The subject changed into disposable cape and bra (if a woman)
or took off all upper body garments (if a man) so as to expose both of the axillae fully.
The dose area was predetermined to be the area covered by hair bearing skin, plus an
 area extending 1 cm beyond the hair bearing skin at each axilla. The dose area was
 cleaned with a pre-wet sterile gauze pad from a 50 ml conical tube by wiping with 5
 long strokes from top to bottom in the same direction using one side of the gauze.
 This step was repeated three more times with a clean pre-wet gauze pad each time
 while being careful not to irritate or abrade the skin. The gauze pads were discarded in
 the trash. The same wash procedure was repeated for the other axilla. The axilla was
 dried with dry sterile gauze by using firm padding motion from top to bottom of the
 axilla while being careful not to irritate or abrade the skin. Then, the axilla was
 further dried by placing a filter paper under the axillary crease and allowing the filter
 to dwell in the test site for 5 minutes following the procedure for gravimetric
  assessment. The patient sat with their arms against his/her body in a resting position.
  The filter papers were discarded in the trash. The subject was allowed to rest for 1
 minute without axilla manipulation prior to the first gravimetric assessment.
                                               34

[01091           Sweat production measurement (gravimetric measurement): (A
                                                                                        The
new pair of powder-free, nitrile gloves was donned prior to these measurements).
subject held his or her hands together at the back of head to expose axillae fully, while
being partially reclined (about 45 degrees). A pre-weighed filter paper was removed
from a conical storage tube and placed under the subject's axilla with the tip of the
filter aligning with the center of axillary crease line. The filter paper held in place by
                                                                                      sat
using fingers while the subject relaxed arms to the side of the body. The subject
with both arms held tightly against his/her trunk for five minutes. The timing started
when the filter papers were securely placed under both of the axillae. Both axillae
were measured simultaneously. After 5 minutes, the filter papers were removed from
the axillae and placed back into the same respective conical tubes. The filter paper
placed first was removed first. The caps of the conical tubes were screwed tightly to
 prevent the evaporation of the sweat from the tube. The sweat production was
 repeated two more times at one-minute intervals.
 Minor's starch/iodine test:
  [0110]          The subject held his/her hands together at the back of head to expose
 the axillae fully. The iodine solution was painted onto the axilla area predetermined
  as before with a sterile gauze pad and allowed to air-dry. When the iodine had
  completely dried, a thin layer of starch was padded onto the area covered by iodine
  with cotton balls. The iodine was allowed to air-dry before the application of starch in
  order to reduce false positive and background. The subject then sat with both arms
  held tightly against his/her trunk. After 5 minutes, the subject raised his/her arms and
  held hands together at the back of head to expose axillae fully. Photographs of each
  axilla with left and right axilla and the date clearly labeled were taken. The axillae
  were cleaned with 70% EtOH and then with sterile deionized water.
   Treatment preparation:
   [0111]          Kn2lpr was prepared at 1 milligram/milliliter concentration with saline
   plus 5% EtOH (i.e., 500 microliters of Kn2lpr was aliquoted and 25 microliters of
   100% EtOH was added). As used herein, Kn2lpr refers to a positively charged
   polylysine backbone with a molecular weight of 21,000 and branching groups
   comprising protected oligoarginine. 100 units of Botox@ (Allergan, Irvine, CA) was
   reconstituted with 0.75 milliliters of 0.9% sodium choride (Abbott Laboratories,
                                                35

                                                                      8 1
North Chicago, Illinois) using sterile 3 ml latex free syringe with 1 G 1/2 (Becton
Dickinson and Company, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey). The reconstituted Botox@
was carefully mixed by inversion 8 times. 200 units of Botox@ were used for each
subject. The treatment solution was prepared with 200 units of Botox@ and Kn2lpr
plus 5% EtOH (i.e., 1.5 milliters of Botox@ was added to 500 microliters of Kn2lpr
plus 25 microliters of 100% EtOH) and kept at room temperature for 5 minutes to
allow the complexes to form. After a 5-minute incubation period, approximately 1.0
milliters of 4% HPC (hydroxypropylcellulose) (with 1% EtOH) was added and mixed
gently and thoroughly with a small metal spatula. The homogenous treatment
solution was transferred into a 3 ml syringe and syringe tip cap. (Becton Dickinson
and Company, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey).
 [0112]          The control solution was prepared with 0.9% sodium chloride and
Kn2lpr plus 5% EtOH (ie.1.5 milliters of 0.9% sodium chloride was added to 500
microliters of Kn2lpr plus 25 microliters of 100% EtOH ) and sat at room
temperature for five minutes. After incubation, approximately 1.0 milliters of 4%
HPC (with 1% EtOH) was added and mixed gently and thoroughly with a small metal
 spatula. The homogenous control solution was transferred into a 3 ml syringe and
 syringe tip cap.
 Treatment application (wearpowder-free, nitrile gloves):
 10113]           The subject held his/her hands together with interlocking fingers and
 placed them on the back of the head to fully exposure the subject's axillae. Then, the
 subject reclined in a chair to an angle of about 45 degrees. As shown in Figure 7, the
 dose area was visually mapped out (i.e. 1 cm beyond the hair bearing skin) for
  application. The dose area were checked for dryness. The syringe tip cap was
 removed from the labeled syringe marked "L" for left and "R" for right, and prepared
  for application onto the subject's axilla. The treatment solution was spread evenly
  around the dose area with a syringe and massaged into the skin with fingers for 1
  minute. The subject then placed his/her arms down along the side of the body and
  incubated for 60 minutes. After 60 minute incubation, the treatment was cleaned with
  sterile gauze pads. The gauze pads and gloves were discarded in a bio-hazard bag.
  The subject was discharged.
                                              36

Results:
[01141           Essentia topical BT reduced sweating by 65% and illustrated in Figure
8a. Sweat production 4 weeks after treatment (randomized by side) with Kn2lpr
backbone alone (control) or kn2lpr backbone plus 200U Botox (ratio to baseline).
Statistical analyses by Wilcoxon signed ranks using NPSS with P as noted and
significance at P<0.05. [n=10 subjects].
[0115]            Second comparison: Baseline vs. 4 weeks (See Figure 8b). Sweat
production (mg per 5 minutes) 4 weeks after axillary treatment (randomized by side)
with kn2lpr backbone alone (control) or kn2lpr backbone plus 200U Botox (ratio of
treatment to control) presented in Table 6. Statistical analyses by Wilcoxon signed
ranks using NPSS with P as noted and significance at P<0.05. (Pr T p=0.0217)
 [n=10].
 [01161           Figure 9 shows photographs depicting Minor's starch/iodine test before
 and after treatement with "Essentia Botox lotion" topically for the treatment of
 axillary hyperhidrosis. Starch/iodine test at Baseline vs. 2 week is shown where right
 axilla was treated with "Essentia Botox lotion" (a and c) and left axilla was applied
 with the control (b and d) for subject #12. These photographs illustrate typical
 benefits observed after treatment with carrier+botox in starch iodine. Although some
  crossover is observed on the control side (consistent with 25% reduction in
  gravimetric data), significant reductions are afforded with treatment (consistent with
  65% reduction in gravimetric data on treated side).
  Conclusions:
  [0117]           This example confirms that topical application of botulinuin complexes
  fonned according to the invention disclosed herein readily afford therapeutic benefit
  in reduction of sweating in a cohort of patients with hyperhidrosis - subjective or
                                                                                forehead
  quantitative. This effect in reducing sweating has also been afforded in the
   case presented above and in palmar/plantar application when combined with a glove
   to limit spread of fonnulation during dwell time. This transepithelial delivery of
   botulinum toxin complexes for therapeutic benefit confirms further that the approach
   can be extended to other cases where SNAP function or acetylcholine signals are
   crucial such as bladder dysfunction or spasm, gastrointestinal applications, or
   sebaceous gland secretions for smell reduction or acne prevention/treatment.
                                              37

CLAIMS
          1.      A composition comprising ,a botulinum toxin and a carrier comprising
 a polymeric backbone having attached positively charged branching groups, wherein
 the association between the carrier and the botulinum toxin is non-covalent.
          2.      A composition according to claim 1 in which the botulinum toxin is a
 botulinum toxin derivative.
          3.       A composition according to claim 1 in which the botulinum toxin
 comprises a recombinant botulinum toxin.
           4.      A composition according to claim 1 in which the botulinum toxin
  comprises a modified botulinum toxin.
           5.      A composition according to claim 1 in which the botulinum toxin is
  selected from botulinum toxin serotypes A, B, C, D, E, F and G.
           6.      A composition according to claim 5 in which the botulinum toxin is
  botulinum toxin A.
           7.      A composition according to claim 5 in which the botulinum toxin is
  botulinum toxin B.
            8.     A composition according to claim 5 in which the botulinum toxin is
  botulinum toxin C1 .
            9.     A composition according to claim 5 in which the botulinum toxin is
   botulinum toxin D.
            10.     A composition according to claim 5 in which the botulinum toxin is
   botulinum toxin E.
            11.     A composition according to claim 1 in which the carrier comprises a
   polypeptide having attached positively charged branching groups selected from
                                                                                 of
   (gly).i-(arg)n2, HIV-TAT, Antennapedia PTD, and fragments of HIV-TAT or
   Antennapedia PTD, in which the subscript n1 is an integer of from 0 to about 20, and
   the subscript n2 is independently an odd integer of from about 5 to about 25.
                                              38

          12.    A composition according to claim 11 in which the carrier comprises a
polypeptide having positively charged branching groups selected from -(gly)nli-(arg)n2
in which the subscript n1 is an integer of from about 0 to about 20 and the subscript
n2 is independently an odd integer of from about 5 to about 25.
          13.    A composition according to claim 12 in which the subscript nl is an
integer of from 0 to about 8.
          14.    A composition according to claim 12 in which the subscript n1 is an
integer of from about 2 to about 5.
           15.    A composition according to claim 12 in which the subscript n2 is an
 odd integer of from about 7 to about 17.
           16.    A composition according to claim 12 in which the subscript n2 is an
 odd integer from about 7 to about 13.
           17.    A composition according to claim 11 in which the carrier comprises a
 polypeptide having attached positively charged branching groups selected from HIV
 TAT and fragments thereof.
           18.     A composition according to claim 17 in which the branching groups
  are positively charged HIV-TAT fragments that have the fonnula
  (gly)p-RGRDDRRQRRR-(gly)q, (gly)p-YGRKKRRQRRR-(gly)q, or
  (gly)p-RKIRRQRRR-(gly)q, wherein the subscripts p and q are each independently
  an integer of from 0 to 20.
            19.    A composition according to claim 1 in which the positively charged
  branching groups comprise at least about 0.05 % by weight of the total carrier weight.
            20.    A composition according to claim 1 in which the positively charged
  branching groups comprise from about 0.5% to about 45% by weight of the total
   carrier weight.
            21.    A composition according to claim 1 in which the positively charged
   branching groups comprise from about 0.1 % to about 30% by weight of the total
   carrier weight.
                                              39

         22.    A composition according to claim 1 in which the backbone comprises
a positively charged polypeptide.
         23.    A composition according to claim 22 in which the backbone comprises
a positively charged polylysine.
         24.    A composition according to claim 23 in which the polylysine has a
molecular weight of from about 10,000 to 1.500,000.
         25.    A composition according to claim 23 in which the polylysine has a
molecular weight of from about 25,000 to about 1,200,000.
         26.    A composition according to claim 23 in which the polylysine has a
molecular weight of from about 100,000 to about 1,000,000.
          27.   A composition according to claim 1 in which the backbone comprises
a positively charged nonpeptidyl carrier.
          28.   A composition according to claim 27 in which the backbone comprises
 a positively charged polyalkyleneimine.
          29.   A composition according to claim 28 in which the polyalkyleneimine
 is a polyethyleneimine.
          30.    A composition according to claim 29 in which the polyethyleneimine
 has a molecular weight of from about 10,000 to about 2,500,000.
          31.    A composition according to claim 29 in which the polyethyleneimine
 has a molecular weight of from about 100,000 to about 1,800,000,
          32.    A composition according to claim 29 in which the polyethyleneimine
 has a molecular weight of from about 500,000 to about 1,400,000.
          33.    A composition according to claim 1 having a pH of from about 4.5 to
  about 6.3.
           34.   A composition according to claim 1 that is stable when stored at room
  temperature or under refrigerated conditions.
                                            40

         35.    A controlled release composition according to claim 1.
         36.    A liquid composition according to claim 1.
         37.    A gel composition according to claim 1.
         38.    A composition according to claim 1 that is a cream, lotion or ointment.
         39.    A composition according to claim 1 further comprising saline.
         40.    A composition according to claim 1 further comprising saline and a pH
buffer system.
         41.    A kit for administration of a botulinum toxin to a subject comprising a
botulinum toxin and an effective amount for transdermal delivery thereof, of a carrier
comprising a polymeric backbone having attached positively charged branching
groups, wherein the association between the carrier and the botulinum toxin is non
covalent.
         42.    A kit according to claim 41 further comprising a custom applicator.
         43.    A kit according to claim 42 in which the custom applicator is designed
for use by a health care professional.
          44.    A kit according to claim 42in which the custom applicator is designed
for self-administration by a subject.
          45.    A kit according to claim 41 comprising a pre-formulated composition
 comprising the botulinum toxin and the carrier.
          46.    A kit according to claim 41 in which the botulinum toxin and the
 carrier are separately formulated for combining prior to administration.
          47.    A kit according to claim 41 in which the botulinum toxin is contained
 in a device for administering the botulinum toxin to a subject via the skin.
          48.    A kit according to claim 47 in which the device is a skin patch.
                                            41

         49.     A kit for administration of a botulinum toxin to a subject comprising a
device for delivering the botulinum toxin to the skin and a composition comprising a
carrier comprising a polymeric backbone having attached positively charged
branching groups selected from - (gly)nl-(arg)nl2, HIV-TAT and fragments thereof,
and Antennapedia PTD, in which the subscript nI is an integer of from 0 to about 20,
and the subscript n2 is independently an odd integer of from about 5 to about 25.
         50.     A kit according to claim 49 in which the device is a skin patch.
          51.    A method of administering a botulinum toxin to a subject comprising
topically applying to the skin or epithelium of the subject the botulinum toxin in
 conjunction with an effective amount of a carrier comprising a polymeric backbone
 having attached positively charged branching groups, wherein the association between
 the carrier and the botulinum toxin is non-covalent.
          52.     A method according to claim 51 comprising topically applying to the
  skin or epithelium of the subject an effective amount of a composition according to
  claim 1.
           53.    A method according to claim 51 in comprising separately applying the
  botulinum toxin and the carrier to the skin or epithelium of the subject.
           54.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
  administered to achieve a desired biologic effect.
           55.     A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
  administered to achieve an aesthetic or cosmetic benefit.
           56.     A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
   applied to reduce or prevent an immune response.
            57.    A method according to claim 56 in which the reduced or prevented
   immune response improves therapeutic response on later repeat re-administrations of
   the composition.
                                               42

        58.     A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
administered for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with subjective or
clinical hyperhidrosis.
         59.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for prevention or reduction of subjective or clinical dystonic
contractions or dystonia.
         60.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with muscle
spasm.
         61.     A method according to claim 60 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically to the lower back of the subject.
         62.     A method according to claim 60 in which the botulinum toxin is
topically applied to the neck of the subject.
          63.    A method according to claim 60 in which the botulinum toxin is
 topically applied to at least one leg of the subject.
          64.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically to the face of the subject, or to a portion thereof.
          65.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically to the axilla of the subject, or to a portion thereof.
          66.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically to the palms of the hands or to the feet of the subject, or to a portion
  thereof.
          67.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically to the back or neck of the subject, or to a portion thereof.
           68.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically to the groin of the subject, or to a portion thereof.
                                               43

         69.    A method according to claim 51 in which the composition is applied
topically to the hands or feet of the subject, or to a portion thereof.
         70.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically to the elbows, upper arms, knees, or upper legs of the subject, or to a
portion thereof.
         71.     A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically to the buttocks of the subject or to a portion thereof.
         72.     A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically to the torso of the subject or to a portion thereof.
          73.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically to the pelvis of the subject or to a portion thereof.
          74.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied to generate or enhance an immune response.
          75.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with migraine
 headache.
          76.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically for prevention or reduction of acne.
          77.     A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is a
  botulinum toxin derivative.
           78.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin
  comprises a recombinant botulinum toxin.
           79.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin
  comprises a modified botulinum toxin.
           80.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
  selected from botulinum toxin serotypes A, B, C, D, E, F and G.
                                               44

         81.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
botulinum toxin A.
         82.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
botulinum toxin B.
         83.     A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
botulinum toxin C.
         84.     A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
botulinum toxin D.
         85.     A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
botulinum toxin E.
         86.     A method according to claim 51 in which the carrier comprises a
polymeric backbone having attached positively charged branching groups selected
 from - (gly)ni-(arg)n2, HIV-TAT, Antennapedia PTD, and fragments of HIV-TAT or
 of Antennapedia PTD, in which the subscript n1 is an integer of from 0 to about 20,
 and the subscript n2 is independently an odd integer of from about 5 to about 25.
          87.    A method according to claim 86 in which the carrier comprises a
 polypeptide having positively charged branching groups selected from        -(gly)ni
 (arg)n2 in which the subscript ni is an integer of from about 0 to about 20 and the
 subscript n2 is independently an odd integer of from about 5 to about 25.
          88.    A method according to claim 87 in which the subscript n1 is an integer
 of from 0 to about 8.
          89.     A method according to claim 87 in which the subscript n1 is an integer
  of from about 2 to about 5
          90.     A method according to claim 87 in which the subscript n2 is an odd
  integer of from about 7 to about 17.
          91.     A method according to claim 87 in which the subscript n2 is an odd
  integer from about 7 to about 13.
                                              45

        92.     A method according to claim 86 in which the carrier comprises a
polypeptide having attached positively charged branching groups selected from HIV
TAT and fragments thereof.
        93.     A method according to claim 92 in which the branching groups are
positively charged HIV-TAT fragments that have the formula
(gly)p-RGRDDRRQRRR-(gly)q, (gly)p-YGRKKRRQRRR-(gly)q, or
(gly)p-RKKRRQRRR-(gly)q, wherein the subscripts p and q are each independently
an integer of from 0 to 20.
        94.     A method according to claim 51 in which the positively charged
branching groups comprise at least about 0.05 % by weight of the total carrier weight.
         95.    A method according to claim 51 in which the positively charged
branching groups comprise from about 0.5% to about 45% by weight of the total
carrier weight.
         96.    A method according to claim 51 in which the positively charged
branching groups comprise from about 0.1 %to about 30% by weight of the total
carrier weight.
         97.    A method according to claim 51 in which the backbone comprises a
positively charged polypeptide.
         98.     A method according to claim 97 in which the backbone comprises a
 positively charged polylysine.
         99.     A method according to claim 98 in which the polylysine has a
 molecular weight of from about 10,000 to 1.5 million.
          100.   A method according to claim 98 in which the polylysine has a
 molecular weight of from about 25,000 to about 1,200,000.
          101.   A method according to claim 98 in which the polylysine has a
 molecular weight of from about 100,000 to about 1,000,000.
          102.   A method according to claim 51 in which the backbone comprises a
 positively charged nonpeptidyl carrier.
                                           46

        103.    A method according to claim 102 in which the positively charged
nonpeptidyl polymer is polyalkyleneimine.
         104.   A method according to claim 102 in which the polyalkyleneimine is a
polyethyleneimine.
         105.   A method according to claim 104 in which the polyethyleneimine has a
molecular weight of from about 10,000 to about 2,500,000.
         106.   A method according to claim 104 in which the polyethyleneimine has a
molecular weight of from about 100,000 to about 1,800,000.
         107.   A method according to claim 104 in which the polyethyleneimine has a
molecular weight of from about 500,000 to about 1,400,000.
         108.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin
 comprises a recombinant botulinum toxin.
         109.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied in a composition having a pH of from about 4.5 to about 6.3.
         110.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied in a controlled release composition.
          111.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 contained in a liquid composition.
          112.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 contained in a gel composition.
          113.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 contained in a composition that is a cream, lotion or ointment.
          114.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
 contained in a composition further comprising saline.
          115.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
  contained in a composition further comprising saline and a pH buffer system.
                                            47

         116.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
contained in a device for dispensing the botulinum toxin, which device is applied
topically to the skin or epithelium of the subject.
         117.   A method according to claim 116 in which the device is a skin patch.
         118.    A method according to claim 117 in which the device is a cell
encapsulating device.
         119.     A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with mucous
 secretion.
          120.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of obesity or symptoms thereof.
          121.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of inflammation or symptoms thereof.
          122.    A method according to claim 121 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with psoriasis.
          123.    A method according to claim 122 in which the composition is applied
 in conjunction with other treatment modalities.
          124.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically for prevention or reduction of snoring.
           125.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically for prevention or reduction of cutaneous symptoms associated with
  diabetes.
           126.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically for improvement of wound healing.
           127.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with autonomic
  nerve dysfunction.
                                              48

        128.     A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with cerebral
palsy.
         129.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with
Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
         130.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with mammary
gland disorders.
         131.     A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for alteration of hair growth.
         132.     A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with parathyroid
 disorders.
          133.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with movement
 disorders.
          134.    A method according to claim 133 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with parkinson's
 disease.
          135.    A method according to claim 133 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with tremors.
          136.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with epilepsy.
          137.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with inner ear
  disorders.
                                             49

        138.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with urologic
disorders.
         139.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for prevention or reduction of other cholinergic-controlled
secretions.
         140.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with
neuropshychiatric disorders.
         141.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with injured
muscles.
         142.     A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with ear
 disorders.
          143.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with cancer.
          144.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
 applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with nerve
 entrapment disorders.
          145.    A method according to claim 54 in which the botulinum toxin is
  applied topically for prevention or reduction of symptoms associated with
 hypercalcemia.
          146.            A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin
  comprises a fusion protein.
           147.   A composition according to claim 5 in which the botulinum toxin is
  botulinum toxin F.
                                              50

        148.   A composition according to claim 5 in which the botulinum toxin is
botulinum toxin G.
        149.   A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
botulinum toxin F.
        150.    A method according to claim 51 in which the botulinum toxin is
botulinum toxin G.
                          Revance Therapeutics, Inc.
              Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                            SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                         51

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
