Abstract
The present invention relates to a mounting clip for an electrical wall plate which can be
attached to the electrical wall plate prior to fitting which allows for one-step fitting or removal
of the electrical wall plate to and from a wall surface. The mounting clip comprises a body
comprising at least two spaced apart support surfaces; and at least one threaded hole for
attachment of the body to the electrical wall plate with at least one elongate threaded fastener
while maintaining a spaced apart and substantially parallel planar position with respect to the
electrical wall plate wherein the outer perimeter of the body lies within the outer perimeter of
the electrical wall plate to enable the placement of the mounting clip through a wall aperture
and abutting the inside surface of the wall while still attached to the electrical wall plate.

                       1/7
- - -2..
         PRIOR ART
          Figure IA & lB

                                                  1
                             A mounting clip for electrical wall plates
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to a mounting clip for electrical wall plates such as
light switches, electrical outlets, or the like.
BACKGROUND
[0002]       An existing method of installing electrical wall plates such as light switches, plug
sockets, or the like includes positioning a mounting clip through an aperture and abutting an
inside wall surface. The wall plate is then attached to the mounting clip by installing screws
through the fascia of the wall plate and into a corresponding hole in the mounting clip. This
method of installation can be awkward and frustrating for the user.
[0003]       In addition, electrical boxes are used which enclose an electrical fitting in a wall
recess. The electrical box is attached to a wall stud by drilling at least one hole in the stud and
securing the electrical box with a screw. Similarly, this method of installation can be time
consuming for the user to locate a stud, create a recess in the wall and secure the electrical box
to the stud in the recess before securing the electrical fitting in the electrical box.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0004]       There is a need for a device which solves, or at least ameliorates the aforementioned
problems. Accordingly, the object of the present invention is to provide a mounting clip for the
installation of electrical wall plates which may at least partially overcome at least one of the
abovementioned disadvantages or provide the consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0005]       With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in a
mounting clip for an electrical wall plate which can be attached to the electrical wall plate prior
to fitting which allows for one-step fitting to and removal from a wall surface or the like.
[0006]       In a first embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a mounting clip
comprising a body comprising:
         .  at least two spaced apart support surfaces; and

                                                    2
          e  at least one threaded hole for attachment of the body to the electrical wall plate with
             at least one elongate threaded fastener while maintaining a spaced apart and
             substantially parallel planar position with respect to the electrical wall plate
wherein the outer perimeter of the body lies within the outer perimeter of the electrical wall
plate to enable the placement of the mounting clip through a wall aperture and abutting the
inside surface of the wall while still attached to the electrical wall plate.
[0007]        In the present specification and claims (if any), the word "comprising" and its
derivatives comprising "comprises" and "comprise" comprise each of the stated integers but
does not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0008]        For the purposes of the specification, the term "electrical wall plate" includes power
outlets for a plug, light switches, television antenna outlet, telephone outlet, internet outlet,
USB outlet, or the like. Further this can include single, double or more outlets or switches on
the same plate and can include electrical wall plates for commercial or residential use. Further,
this term can include electrical plates for installation in any planar surface such as a wall,
ceiling, floor or the like.
[0009]        Preferably, the at least two spaced apart support surfaces are three supports to form
a C-shape or four sides to form a quadrilateral.
[0010]        Preferably, the at least one threaded hole is a pair of threaded holes, one on each
support surface.
[0011]        Preferably, the threaded fastener is a screw.
[0012]        Preferably, the body also comprises a raised edge extending from an inside edge of
each of the support surfaces to provide structural rigidity.
[0013]        In a second embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method of
mounting an electrical wall plate as described above, the method comprising the steps:
a.           placing the body of the mounting clip through an aperture in a wall surface while
still attached to the electrical wall plate via the at least one elongate threaded fastener;
b.           placing the inside surface of the electrical wall plate against an outer wall surface;
and

                                                   3
c.           adjusting the distance of the electrical wall plate with respect to the body of the
mounting clip by tightening least one elongate threaded fastener to fix the electrical wall plate
against the outer wall surface.
[0014]       Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0015]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0016]       Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled
in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting
the scope of the preceding Summary of Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will
make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[0017]       Figure 1A shows a front view of a first embodiment of the present invention in the
form of a mounting clip for the installation of electrical wall plates;
[0018]       Figure 1B shows a front view of a prior art mounting clip;
[0019]       Figure 2 shows a front view of a second embodiment of the present invention in the
form of a mounting clip for the installation of electrical wall plates;
[0020]       Figure 3A shows a perspective view of a third embodiment of the present invention
in the form of a mounting clip for the installation of electrical wall plates;
[0021]       Figure 3B shows a side view of the mounting clip shown in Figure 3A;
[0022]       Figure 4 shows a front perspective photographic view of the third embodiment of
the present invention as shown in Figure 3A attached to a double plug power outlet;
[0023]       Figure 5 shows a rear perspective photographic view of the third embodiment
attached to a double plug power outlet as shown in Figure 4;
[0024]       Figure 6 shows a front photographic view of a double plug power outlet installed on

                                                  4
a plasterboard wall with the first embodiment of the present invention as shown in Figure 4; and
[0025]       Figure 7 shows a rear photographic view of the first embodiment of the present
invention attached to the plasterboard wall to install the double plug power outlet as shown in
Figure 6.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0026]       Figure lA shows a mounting clip 100 for installation an electrical wall plate (shown
as 400 in Figures 4, 5 and 6) on a plasterboard wall (shown as 500 in Figures 6 and 7). The
mounting clip 100 comprises a body 1 made from 1mm thick sheet steel (produced by a metal
stamp) comprising at least two spaced apart support surfaces in the form of three supports with
two side supports 2 and a base support 3 to form a C-shape. The body 1 also comprises a pair of
threaded holes 4, one on each side support surface, for attachment to pair of elongate threaded
fasteners in the form of screws (shown as 7 in Figures 5, 6 and 7) which are threaded through
the electrical wall plate 400 to maintain a spaced apart and substantially parallel planar position
with respect to the electrical wall plate 400.
[0027]       Compared to known c-clips as shown in Figure 1, the outer perimeter of the body
1 of the mounting clip 100 lies within the outer perimeter of the electrical wall plate 400 to
enable the placement of the mounting clip 100 through a wall aperture and abutting the inside
surface of the wall 500 while still attached to the electrical wall plate 400.
[0028]       In addition, the threaded holes 4 are inset an increased distance from the inner edge
of the body 1 for increased rigidity. Further, there is increased length of the two side supports 2
compared to the known c-clip, which provides improved stability of the body 1 in relation to
the wall surface 500.
[0029]       Figure 2 shows a second embodiment of the present invention in the form of a
mounting clip 200 comprising four spaced apart support surfaces to form a quadrilateral in the
form of two side supports 2, a base support 3 and a top support 5.
[0030]       As shown in Figures 3A & 3B, the body 1 also comprises a raised edge (or rib) 6
extending from an inside edge of each of the support surfaces to provide structural rigidity. In
addition, the raised edge 6 can also abut the edge surface of the wall aperture to provide
improved stability of the body 1 in relation to the wall surface 500.

                                                  5
[0031]      Referring to Figures 4 to 7, in use the body lof the mounting clip 300 is placed
through an aperture in a wall surface 500 while still attached to the electrical wall plate 400 via
the pair of elongate screws 7. The inside surface of the electrical wall plate 400 is then placed
against an outer wall surface 500 and the distance of the electrical wall plate 400 with respect to
the body of the mounting clip 300 by tightening the pair of elongate screws 7 to fix the
electrical wall plate 400 against the outer wall surface 500.
[0032]      The mounting clip 100 can accommodate different wall thicknesses (such as fire
walls with increased thickness over plywood walls or plasterboard walls) by adjustment of the
elongate screws 7 to alter the distance between the body 1 and the electrical wall plate 400.
[0033]      Thus the present invention has a number of advantages over the prior art such as:
    *   Improved ease of use in mounting an electrical wall plate;
    *   Improved speed of installation of an electrical plate on a wall surface; and
    *   Improved reliability and security in mounting an electrical wall plate.
[0034]      Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment"
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is comprised in at least one embodiment of the present invention.              Thus, the
appearance of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.In compliance with the statute, the invention has
been described in language more or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be
understood that the invention is not limited to specific features shown or described since the
means herein described comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect.         The
invention is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of
the appended claims (if any) appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                   6
Claims:
1.      A mounting clip for an electrical wall plate comprising a body comprising:
        *    at least two spaced apart support surfaces; and
        *    at least one threaded hole for attachment of the body to the electrical wall plate with
             at least one elongate threaded fastener while maintaining a spaced apart and
             substantially parallel planar position with respect to the electrical wall plate
       wherein the outer perimeter of the body lies within the outer perimeter of the electrical
       wall plate to enable the placement of the mounting clip through a wall aperture and
       abutting the inside surface of the wall while still attached to the electrical wall plate.
2.      The mounting clip as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least two spaced apart support
        surfaces are three supports to form a C-shape or four sides to form a quadrilateral.
3.      The mounting clip as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the at least one threaded
        hole is a pair of threaded holes, one on each support surface.
4.      The mounting clip as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the threaded fastener
        is a screw.
5.      The mounting clip as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the body also
        comprises a raised edge extending from an inside edge of each of the support surfaces
        and configured to abut the edge surface of the wall aperture.
6.      A method of mounting an electrical wall plate as claimed in claim 1, the method
        comprising the steps:
    a. placing the body of the mounting clip through an aperture in a wall surface while still
        attached to the electrical wall plate via the at least one elongate threaded fastener;
    b. placing the inside surface of the electrical wall plate against an outer wall surface; and
    c. adjusting the distance of the electrical wall plate with respect to the body of the
        mounting clip by tightening least one elongate threaded fastener to fix the electrical wall
        plate against the outer wall surface.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

