00661010
         ABSTRACT
         The present invention relates to a method for harvesting recombinant proteins from mammalian cell
         culture fluid. The method makes use of cationic polymers, non-ionic polymers and non-ionic
         surfactants.

0661010
                                             FLOCCULATION METHOD
                 This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Number 61/576,303 filed
        December 15, 2011, which is incorporated by reference herein.
                 This application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. 2012351926, the entire
     5  disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
        FIELD OF INVENTION
                 The present invention relates to a method for harvesting recombinant proteins from
        mammalian cell culture broth. The method makes use of cationic polymers, non-ionic polymers and
        non-ionic surfactants.
   10   BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
                 Clinical manufacture of therapeutic proteins is an expensive, large scale endeavor. Demand
        for greater quantities of therapeutic recombinant proteins has driven advances in cell culture
        processing which have resulted in dramatically increased product titer. High titer cell culture
        processes are typically produced by maintaining high viable cell densities over longer culture
   15   durations. A corresponding increase in the biomass solids (viable and non-viable cells) and the
        submicron cellular debris particles are also observed. The higher burden of solids and submicron
        cellular debris particles can challenge mammalian cell culture harvest processes, making the harvest
        process less effective at removing the debris without a substantial loss of product capacity.
                 Cationic polymer flocculents are used for many applications ranging from potable water
   20   purification, waste water treatment, uses in the petroleum, mining and paper making industries,
        cosmetics and medical uses, and have also been used to encapsulate mammalian cells and enzymes
        and to flocculate microbial cell cultures. However, for use in a commercial scale mammalian cell
        harvest process, lengthy flocculation settling time can be problematic, resulting in a harvest process
        that is time consuming and less efficient than standard harvest practices.
   25            There is a continuing need to improve mammalian cell culture harvest methods, particularly
        commercial scale methods. Any improvements that allow for quicker recovery times and/or greater
        recovery can lead to reduced costs associated with manufacturing protein therapeutics. The
        invention fulfills this need by providing a quick and efficient method of cell culture harvest.
        SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   30            The present invention provides a mammalian cell culture harvest method comprising
        culturing mammalian cells expressing a recombinant protein in a cell culture medium for a
                                                            1

   predetermined time or until a desired cell density and/or packed cell volume is achieved,
   adding a cationic polymer and a non-ionic polymer to the cell culture medium initiating
   flocculation, mixing the cell culture medium during flocculation, allowing the flocculent to
   settle, and recovering the clarified supernatant.
 5          The present invention also provides a mammalian cell culture harvest method
   comprising culturing mammalian cells expressing a recombinant protein in a cell culture
   medium for a predetermined time or until a desired cell density and/or packed cell volume is
   achieved, adding poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride and PEG 3,000 to the cell culture
   medium initiating flocculation, mixing the cell culture medium during flocculation, allowing
10 the flocculent to settle, and recovering the clarified supernatant.
            The present invention also provides a mammalian cell culture harvest method
            comprising
   culturing mammalian cells expressing a recombinant protein in a cell culture medium for a
   predetermined time or until a desired cell density and/or packed cell volume is achieved,
15 adding poly diallyldimetliyammonium chloride, PEG 3,000 and Triton X-100 to the cell
   culture medium initiating flocculation, mixing the cell culture medium during flocculation,
   allowing the flocculent to settle, and recovering the clarified supernatant.
             The present invention also provides a mammalian cell culture harvest method
   comprising
20 culturing mammalian cells expressing a recombinant protein in a cell culture medium for a
   predetermined time or until a desired cell density and/or packed cell volume is achieved,
   adding a cationic polymer and a non-ionic polymer to the cell culture medium initiating
   flocculation, mixing the cell culture medium during flocculation, allowing the flocculent to
   settle for a primary settle, recovering the primary clarified supernatant, washing the primary
25 settle flocculent, allowing the washed flocculent to settle for a secondary settle, and
   recovering the secondary clarified supernatant.
             The present invention also provides a mammalian cell culture harvest method
   comprising
   culturing mammalian cells expressing a recombinant protein in a cell culture medium for a
30 predetermined time or until a desired cell density and/or packed cell volume is achieved,
   adding-a cationic polymer and a non-ionic polymer to the cell culture medium initiating
   flocculation, mixing the cell culture medium during flocculation, allowing the flocculent to
   settle for a primary settle, recovering the primary clarified supernatant, washing the primary
   settle flocculent if product recovery in the primary clarified supernatant is less than 80%,
35 allowing the washed flocculent to settle for a secondary settle, and recovering the secondary
   clarified supernatant.
                                                     2

             The present invention also provides a mammalian cell culture harvest method
   comprising
   culturing mammalian cells expressing a recombinant protein in a cell culture medium for a
   predetermined time or until a desired cell density and/or packed cell volume is achieved,
 5 adding poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride and PEG 3,000 to the cell culture medium
   initiating flocculation, mixing the cell culture medium during flocculation, allowing the
   flocculent to settle for a primary settle, recovering the primary clarified supernatant, washing
   the primary settle flocculent, allowing the washed flocculent to settle for a secondary settle,
   and recovering the secondary clarified supernatant.
10           The present invention also provides a mammalian cell culture harvest method
   comprising     .
   culturing mammalian cells expressing a recombinant protein in a cell culture medium for a
   predetermined time or until a desired cell density and/or packed cell volume is achieved,
   adding poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride, PEG 3,000 and Triton X-100 to the cell
15 culture medium initiating flocculation, mixing the cell culture medium during flocculation,
   allowing the flocculent to settle for a primary settle, recovering the primary clarified
   supernatant, washing the primary settle flocculent, allowing the washed flocculent to settle for
   a secondary settle, and recovering the secondary clarified supernatant.
             In one embodiment the cationic polymer is poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride.
20           In-another embodiment the non-ionic polymer is selected from poly ethylene glycol
   and dextran.
             In another embodiment the non-ionic polymer is selected from PEG 3,000 and PEG
   6,000.
             In another embodiment, the mammalian cell culture harvest methods provided above
25 further comprise adding a non-ionic surfactant to the cell culture medium.           In a related
   embodiment the non-ionic surfactant is Triton X-100.
             In another embodiment, the cationic polymer and the non-ionic polymer are added
   simultaneously.
             In another embodiment, the cationic polymer, the non-ionic polymer and the non
30 ionic surfactant are added simultaneously.
             In another embodiment, the cationic polymer is added first and mixed for at least 30
   seconds followed by addition of the non-ionic polymer.
             In another embodiment, the cationic polymer is added first and mixed for at least 30
   seconds followed by addition of the non-ionic polymer and a non-ionic surfactant.
35           In    another    embodiment,      the    cationic    polymer    is   a   polymer      of
   diallyldimethylammonium            chloride,        polydiallyldimethyammonium           chloride,
   polyethyleneimine, polyacrylamide or chitosan.
                                                    3

            In another embodiment, the non-ionic surfactant is Sapoin or Triton X100.
            In another embodiment, the poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride is added at a
   concentration of at or about 20 to at or about 90 pg/total cell density.
            In another embodiment the poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride is added at a
 5 concentration of at or about 25 pg/total cell density wherein the mammalian cells originate
   from a diploid cell line.
            In another embodiment, the poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride is added between
   43 pg/total cell density and 57 pg/total cell density wherein the mammalian cells originate
   from a tetraploid cell line.
10          In another embodiment, the concentration of PEG 3,000 is at or about 3% to at or
   about 4.5%.
            In another embodiment, the concentration of PEG 6,000 is at or about 2.5% to at or
   about 3.5%.
            In another embodiment, the concentration of Triton X100 is 0.05% (w/v).
15          In another embodiment, the mammalian cell culture broth is between 36*C and 20 0 C.
            In another embodiment, the mammalian cell culture broth is at or above 20*C.
            In another embodiment, the flocculent from the primary settle is washed in a 9%
   sucrose solution.
20 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   Figure 1 provides the structure of PDADMAC.
   Figure 2A shows the difference in settling times achieved by PDADMAC at various
   molecular weights. The concentration of PDADMAC at each molecular weight was 57
25 pg/Total cell density. The closed diamond/dashed line represents PDADMAC molecular
   weight 100,000 - 200,000. The closed square with dashed line represents PDADMAC
   molecular weight of 200,000 - 300,000. The closed triangle and solid line represents
   PDADMAC molecular weight of 400,000 - 500,000.
30 Figure 2B shows the supernatant clarity achieved when flocculating cell culture broth with
   PDADMAC at various molecular weights. From left to right the bars represent PDADMAC
   molecular weight of < 100,000; 100,000 - 200,000; 200,000 -350,000; and 400,000
   500,000.
35 Figure 3A shows the impact of high molecular weight PDADMAC concentration on
   flocculation of 15-20 pm cells. The closed diamond dashed line represents PDADMAC at
   I lpg/Total cell density. The closed square with dashed line represents PDADMAC at 18
                                                   4

   pg/Total cell density. The closed triangle with solid line represents PDADMAC at 25
   pg/Total cell density. The closed circle with dashed line represents PDADMAC at 39
   pg/Total cell density.
 5 Figure 3B shows the impact of high molecular weight PDADMAC concentration on
   flocculation of 21-24 prn cells. The closed diamond dot and dashed line represents
   PDADMAC at 29 pg/Total cell density. The closed square with dashed line represents
   PDADMAC at 43 pg/Total cell density. The closed triangle with dashed line represents
   PDADMAC at 57 pg/Total cell density. The closed circle with solid line represents
10 PDADMAC at 71 pg/Total cell density, The closed square with dotted line represents
   PDADMAC at 86 pg/Total cell density.
   Figure 4A shows the impact of high molecular weight PDADMAC flocculation for cell
   cultures that product high lactate levels. The solid diamond with solid line represents no
15 added lactate. The solid square with dashed line represents lactate spiked at 3 g/L. The solid
   triangle with dashed line represents lactate spiked at 6 g/L. The solid circle with dashed line
   represents lactate spiked at 9 g/L.
   Figure 4B shows the impact of high molecular weight PDADMAC flocculation for cell
20 cultures that have high cell density as measured by packed cell volume (PCV). The solid
   diamond with dashed line represents 44% PCV. The solid triangle with dashed line
   represents 33% PCV. The solid square with dashed line represents 22% PCV. The solid
   circle with solid line represents 11% PCV.
25 Figure 5 shows the impact of various diluents on high molecular weight PDADMAC
   flocculation for a cell culture process with high lactate levels. The solid triangle with the
   dotted and dashed line represents Sucrose. The solid square with dashed line represents cell
   culture media with no diluents. The solid diamond with dashed line represents Betaine. The
   solid circle with dashed line represents PEG 1,000. The solid triangle with the solid line
30 represents PEG 6,000. The solid triangle with the dashed line represents Dextran 70 and
   Betaine.
   Figure 6 shows the impact of PDADMAC/PEG flocculation for cell cultures with a PCV of
   43.2%. The solid diamond with dashed line represents PDADMAC only. The solid square
35 with dashed line represents Sucrose. The solid triangle with solid line represents
   PDADMAC/PEG.
                                                    5

    Figure 7 shows the impact of the order of addition of PDADMAC and PEG. PDADMAC and
    PEG bolus addition (1 step method) is shown by the solid triangle with the dashed line.
    PDADMAC addition followed by PEG addition (2 stem method) is shown by the solid square
    with dashed line. PDADMAC alone is shown by the solid diamond with the solid line.
  5
    Figure 8 shows the impact of addition of Triton X-100. PDADMAC/PEG addition is shown
    by the solid square with the solid line. PDADMAC/PEG/Trition X-100 addition is shown by
    the solid triangle with the dashed line.
10  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
              The invention provides a simple harvest flocculation technique intended to maximize
    the recovery operation of high cell mass cell culture processes. Provided is a mammalian cell
    culture harvest method that makes use of cationic polymers in combination with non-ionic
    polymers in the flocculation of cell culture broth.        Also provides is the use of cationic
15  polymers in combination with both non-ionic polymers and non-ionic surfactants,
            - The invention is based on the discovery that using a non-ionic polymer or a non-ionic
    polymer and a non-ionic surfactant in combination with a cationic polymer to flocculate a
    mammalian cell culture broth decreased the flocculent settling time from 24 hours or longer
    to less than  I hour, in some cases 15 minutes, independent of the cell culture process density
20  (up to 44% packed cell volume) or lactate levels (l Og/L), The use of non-ionic polymers also
    resulted in removal of high order aggregates and host cell proteins that co-purify with the
    desired recombinant product. This simple harvest method maximized the recovery operation
    of cell culture processes, particularly high cell mass cell culture commercial level processes.
              Flocculation is a process whereby particles in suspension form larger-size aggregates
25  or clusters.   In flocculation, particles come out of suspension in the form of floc by the
    addition of a flocculation agent or flocculent.        Flocculents can be anionic or cationic
    polymers. There are natural flocculents such as alginates or Chitosan; mineral flocculents
    such as colloidal clays and activated silica; and synthetic flocculents such as polyacrylamides
    and poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride. Synthetic flocculents can be manufactured to
30  have specific molecular weights (based on chain length) and molecular distribution,
             Cationic polymers interact with negatively charged particles, such as organic
    substances. In cell culture broth, cationic polymers interact with negatively charged particles
    such as viable and non-viable cells, cell metabolites and the cellular debris such as nucleic
    acids, proteins and liposomes. Flocculation of negatively charged compounds found in cell
35  culture broth with cationic polymers takes place through ionic interaction either via the
    bridging of the negatively charged particles; through patch binding of the cationic polymer
    that result in flocculation; or through charge neutralization of large negatively charged
                                                     6

   particles that result in the neutralized particle failing out of solution. Flocs formed by cationic
   polymer bridging of the negatively charged particles produced larger flocs and have increased
   shear sensitivity which result in floc disruption that produce higher levels of slower settling
   smaller particles. With patch or charge neutralization, cationic polymers with high charge
 5 densities interact with anionic patches on the particles in suspension, and either neutralized
   the charge on the particle or form larger particles that settled out of solution. Flocs formed in
   this manner have a smaller floc particle volume and are less prone to disruption due to
   shearing. For example, addition of poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride (PDADMAC) to
   cell culture broth flocculates negatively charged cells and cellular debris into larger particles
10 via an electrostatic patch mechanism (Ramsden et al. (1998), Biotechnology Techniques,
    12(8):599-603.   PDADMAC also flocculates the negatively charged submicron particles to
   produce a feed stream with a significantly higher harvest filter train throughput compared to a
   typical centrifuged harvest feed stream. Flocculation via ionic interaction can be disrupted by
   increasing the salt concentration or altering pH.
15          The addition of a cationic polymer, such as poly diallyldimethyammonium chloride,
   to mammalian cell culture media that contains or has contained cells expressing recombinant
   proteins flocculates the negatively charged particles, including cells (viable and non-viable),
   cell metabolites and cellular debris. These large flocculated particles can be removed by
   centrifugation or by gravity settling. The setting rate or the time required for flocculated cells
20 and cell debris to settle out is dependent on the density of cells, cell debris and cell
   metabolites.     At low cell densities that are typical for batch cell culture process, the
   flocculated material typically settles out (no further settling) at some point over 4 hours to 24
   hours, typically around 20-24 hours, Settling rates significantly decrease with cell culture
   processes that produce high cell densities of biomass (>10% packed cell volume), submicron
25 cellular debris, and/or high lactate -levels (>2-3 g/L). Cell culture processes that produced
   high cell densities or have elevated lactate levels require a significant amount of cell broth
   dilution for the floc to settle out in 24 hours. Despite the ease of using cationic polymers,
   such as PDADMAC as an alternative to traditional harvest methods, the prolonged settling
   times could be less desirable on a commercial scale.
30          The invention provides that flocculated particle size and the particle size growth rate
   in cationic polymer flocculated material are greatly enhanced in the presences of non-ionic
   polymers and non-ionic surfactants.       Floc gravity settling times of less than 2 hours were
   routinely seen when PDADMAC was used in combination with non-ionic polymers such as
   polyethylene glycols and non-ionic surfactants, such as Triton XIOO, in spite of high
35 biomass/cell densities that significantly increased the PDADMAC-only flocculation settling
   time, Shear forces that could disrupt the flocs and/or reduce flocculation rates were tolerated
   with the addition of non-ionic polymers and non-ionic surfactants. Harvest recovery yields of
                                                      7

   80-90% or greater were consistently achieved with significantly reduced host DNA. Non
   ionic polymer addition also reduces host cell proteins and some high molecular weight
   species.
            As used herein, "cationic polymers" are positively charged polymers that bind to
 5 negatively charged suspended particles. Cationic polymers include, but are not limited to,
   polymers of diallyl dimethyl ammonium chloride (DADMAC).              In a preferred embodiment,
   the polymerization of DADMAC forms an N-substituted pyrrolidine structure, PDADMAC
   (Figure 1). Cationic polymers also include poly ethyleneimine (PEI), poly acrylamide (PAA)
   and chitosan,
10          Concentrations of at or about 20 pg to at or about 90 pg of PDADMAC per total cell
   density resulted in low supernatant turbidity and good floc settling. "Total cell density" is the
   sum of viable cells plus non-viable cells as measured by Trypan Blue exclusion using a Cedex
   Cell Counter and Analyzer. In one embodiment for small cell lines, such as a diploid cell
   line, PDADMAC is added at or about 25 pg/total cell density.             In another embodiment,
15 PDADMAC is added at or about 43 to at or about 57 pg/total cell density for larger cell lines,
   such as a tetraploid cell line,
            PDADMAC        at molecular weights from 200,000-500,000             impact flocculation
   performance by increasing sedimentation rate and supernatant clarity, compared to lower
   molecular weight forms.       In one embodiment, the PDADMAC molecular weight is in the
20 range of 400,000 to 500,000. In one embodiment, PDADMAC having a molecular weight in
   the range of 400,000 - 500,000 is used at a final concentration of 22pg/Total cell density. In
   another embodiment, PDADMAC having a molecular weight in the range of 400,000
   500,000 is used at a final concentration of 25pg/Total cell density. In another embodiment,
   PDADMAC having a molecular weight in the range of 400,000 - 500,000 is used at a final
25 concentration of 45pg/Total cell density.
            As used herein, "settling rate", "gravity settling rate" and "flocculated packed settling
   rate" are used interchangeably. Settling rates can be determined by methods known in the art
   and described herein. For example, gravity settling is at I g. Settling rates are determined by
   taking the floc volume divided by the total volume measured in a 0.5L or I L glass graduated
30 cylinder. Total volume is the volume of the cell broth with all flocculating/settling agents
   included,
            "Settling time" is the time it takes the floc to have settled. Settling time is achieved
   when the floc settling rate is less than or equal to 1% per hour. Settling times of as little as 15
   minutes for PDADMAC flocculation in combination with dosing of a non-ionic polymer or
35 non-ionic polymers in combination with non-ionic surfactants are described herein. The rapid
   settling time occurred in spite of the high biomass/cell densities that significantly increase the
   PDADMAC-only flocculation settling time, Shear forces that disrupt the flocs and/or reduce
                                                    8

   flocculation rates are tolerated with the addition of non-ionic polymers or non-ionic
   surfactants.
              Supernatant clarity is independent of the settling rate, but is dependent on the
   cationic polymer dosing level. Other factors such as temperature, cell culture fluid density
 5 and viscosity had little impact on settling rate or supernatant clarity. PDADMAC dosing, in
   particular, is a function of the cell volume, the total density of cells (viable and non-viable
   cells), and the concentration of submicron cellular debris particles.
             As used herein, "non-ionic polymer" refers to hydrophilic polymers that increase
   interactions between molecules, enhancing precipitation. Non-ionic polymers include, but are
10 not limited to, polyethylene glycols (PEG) maltodextran, starches, methyl celluloses, and
   dextrans.
             Increased settling rates were achieved when PEG or dextrans were added to
   mammalian cell culture media simultaneously with or subsequent to the addition of a cationic
   polymer flocculent. Product recovery-was dependent on the non-ionic polymer concentration,
15 PEG molecular weight, order of addition of the non-ionic polymer and PDADMAC
   (simultaneously or PDADMAC first followed by the non-ionic polymer) and cell culture
   duration or debris level in the cell culture broth.
             PEG 3,000 is useful in the range of at or about 3 to at or about 4.5% (w/v). PEG
   6,000 is useful in the range of at or about 2.5 % to at or about 3.5% (w/v).             In one
20 embodiment PEG 3,000 is used at a final concentration of 3% (w/v). In another embodiment,
   PEG 3,000 is used at a final concentration of 15% (w/v).     In another embodiment, PEG 3,000
   is used at a final concentration of 25% (w/v).
             As used herein, "non-ionic surfactant" refers to organic compounds that are
   amphiphilic, meaning they contain both hydrophobic groups and hydrophilic groups and
25 includes, but is not limited to, Sapoin and Triton X100 In one embodiment, Triton X-100 is
   used at a final concentration of 0.05% (w/v).
            The non-ionic polymer can be added alone or in combination with a non-ionic
   surfactant,   Either can be added simultaneously with the cationic polymer or subsequent to
   addition of cationic polymer.      The non-ionic polymer and surfactant can both be added
30 quickly with an addition time of   1 minute or less.
            Once the flocculent has settled (primary settling), the clarified supernatant can be
   harvested. To increase recombinant product recovery, the floc can be washed or resuspended
   to remove any residual recombinant product. Suitable wash diluents include sucrose, PEG,
   cell culture media and buffer saline solution. In one embodiment, the wash diluent is 9%
35 sucrose. The floc and wash diluent is mixed for <1 minute to 60 minutes and allowed to settle
   for -1 hour to 24 hours.     Once floc has settled (secondary settling) the clarified secondary
                                                     9

     supernatant is harvested. The supernatants from the primary and secondary settling can be
     combined or purified separately.
             Clarified supernatant can be harvested by removing the supernatant by pumping or
     decanting followed by filtration through a depth filter containing diatomaceous earth and
  5  followed by a 0.2p cut off membrane filter or just a 0.2g cutoff filter.
              Cationic polymer clearance can be monitored by methods known in the art, such as
    assays for monitoring mammalian cell toxicity; assays for determining the inhibition of DNA
    or RNA transcription by DNA polymerase or reverse transcription, and by assays that
    determine protein translation of mRNA; and by methods described herein.            For example,
10   PDADMAC clearance from the recombinant protein purification process intermediates can be
    monitored by inhibition of DNA amplification in using quantitative polymerase chain reaction
    (QPCR).
             The cell culture broth can be used directly from the bioreactor or it can be cooled
    prior to flocculation. In a preferred embodiment the temperature range for the cell culture
15  broth is from at or about 36*C to at or about 20*C. In another embodiment, the cell culture
    broth is cooled to at or about 20*C.
             The present invention provides a method of harvesting recombinant proteins from
    mammalian cell cultures.       The typical methods used in commercial processes for the
    production of recombinant proteins by mammalian cell culture include batch culture, fed
20  batch and perfusion culture. Batch culture, a discontinuous method here cells are grown in
    a fixed volume of culture media for a short period of time followed by a full harvest. Harvest
                                                                                                    6
    typically occurs at the point when the maximum cell density is achieved (typically 5-10x10
    cells/mL.    Fed-batch culture provides bolus or continuous media feeds to replenish those
    media components that have been consumed.           Since fed-batch cultures receive additional
25  nutrients throughout the run, they have the potential to achieve higher cell densities (>10 to
    30x10 6 cells/ml) and increased product titers, when compared to the batch method.          With
    perfusion methods, typical large scale commercial cell culture strategies strive to reach high
    cell densities, 60 - 90(+) x 106 cells/mL where almost a fifty to over one-half of the reactor
    volume is biomass. With perfusion culture, extreme cell densities of>1 x 108 cells/mL have
30  been achieved and even higher densities are predicted.
             As used herein "peptide," "polypeptide" and "protein" are used interchangeably
    throughout and refer to a molecule comprising two or more amino acid residues joined to
    each other by peptide bonds.       Peptides, polypeptides and proteins are also inclusive of
    modifications including, but not limited to, glycosylation, lipid attachment, sulfation, gamma
35  carboxylation of glutamic acid residues, hydroxylation and ADP-ribosylation. Polypeptides
    can be of scientific or commercial interest, including protein-based drugs.         Polypeptides
    include, among other things, antibodies,        fusion proteins,     and cytokines.     Peptides,
                                                   10

   polypeptides and proteins are produced by recombinant animal cell lines using cell culture
   methods and may be referred to as "recombinant peptide", "recombinant polypeptide" and
   "recombinant protein". The expressed protein(s) may be produced intracellularly or secreted
   into the culture medium from which it can be recovered and/or collected.
 5          Examples of polypeptides that can be harvested using the methods of the invention
   include proteins comprising amino acid sequences identical to or substantially similar to all or
   part of one of the following proteins: tumor necrosis factor (TNF), ft3 ligand (WO
   94/28391), erythropoeitin, thrombopoeitin, calcitonin, IL-2, angiopoietin-2 (Maisonpierre et
   al. (1997), Science 277(5322): 55-60), ligand for receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANKL,
10 WO 01/36637), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related     apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL, WO
   97/01633), thymic stroma-derived lymphopoietin, granulocyte colony stimulating factor,
   granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF, Australian Patent No. 588819),
   mast cell growth factor, stem cell growth factor (US Patent No.6,204,363), epidermal growth
   factor, keratinocyte growth factor, megakaryote growth and development factor, RANTES,
15 human fibrinogen-like 2 protein (FGL2; NCBI accession no. NM_00682; RUegg and Pytela
   (1995),   Gene 160:257-62) growth hormone, insulin, insulinotropin, insulin-like growth
   factors, parathyroid hormone, interferons including a-interferons, y-interferon, and consensus
   interferons (US Patent Nos. 4,695,623 and 4,897471), nerve growth factor, brain-derived
   neurotrophic    factor, synaptotagmin-like proteins (SLP     1-5), neurotrophin-3,    glucagon,
20 interleukins, colony stimulating factors, lymphotoxin-p, leukemia inhibitory factor, and
   oncostatin-M.     Descriptions of proteins that can be produced according to the inventive
   methods may be found in, for example, Human Cytokines: Handbook for Basic and Clinical
   Research, all volumes (Aggarwal and Gutterman, eds. Blackwell Sciences, Cambridge, MA,
    1998); Growth Factors: A Practical Approach (McKay and Leigh, eds., Oxford University
25 Press Inc., New York, 1993); and The Cytokine Handbook, Vols. I and 2 (Thompson and
   Lotze eds., Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 2003).
            Additionally the methods of the invention would be useful to harvest proteins
   comprising all or part of the amino acid sequence of a receptor for any of the above
   mentioned proteins, an antagonist to such a receptor or any of the above-mentioned proteins,
30 and/or proteins substantially similar to such receptors or antagonists.    These receptors and
   antagonists include: both forms of tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR, referred to as p55
   and p75, US Patent No. 5,395,760 and US Patent No. 5,610,279), Interleukin-1              (IL-I)
   receptors (types I and II; EP Patent No. 0460846, US Patent No. 4,968,607, and US Patent
   No. 5,767,064,), IL-1 receptor antagonists (US Patent No. 6,337,072), IL-1 antagonists or
35 inhibitors (US Patent Nos. 5,981,713, 6,096,728, and 5,075,222) IL-2 receptors, IL-4
   receptors (EP Patent No. 0 367 566 and US Patent No. 5,856,296), IL-15 receptors, IL-17
   receptors, IL-18 receptors, Fc receptors, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor
                                                 11

   receptor, granulocyte colony stimulating factor receptor, receptors for oncostatin-M and
   leukemia inhibitory factor, receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANK, WO 01/36637 and US
   Patent No. 6,271,349), osteoprotegerin (US. Patent No. 6,015,938), receptors for TRAIL
   (including TRAIL receptors 1, 2, 3, and 4), and receptors that comprise death domains, such
 5 as Fas or Apoptosis-Inducing Receptor (AIR).
         -  Other proteins that can be harvested using the invention include proteins comprising
   all or part of the amino acid sequences of differentiation antigens (referred to as CD proteins)
   or their ligands or proteins substantially similar to either of these. Such antigens are disclosed
   in Leukocyte Tvping VI (Proceedings of the VIth International Workshop and Conference,
10 Kishimoto, Kikutani et al., eds., Kobe, Japan, 1996).        Similar CD proteins are disclosed in
   subsequent workshops.       Examples of such antigens include CD22, CD27, CD30, CD39,
   CD40, and ligands thereto (CD27 ligand, CD30 ligand, etc.). Several of the CD antigens are
   members of the TNF receptor family, which also includes 41BB and OX40. The ligands are
   often members of the TNF family, as are 41BB ligand and OX40 ligand.
15          Enzymatically active proteins or their ligands can also be harvested using the
   invention. Examples include proteins comprising all or part of one of the following proteins
   or their ligands or a protein substantially similar to one of these:            a disintegrin and
   metalloproteinase domain family members including TNF-alpha Converting Enzyme, various
   kinases, glucocerebrosidase, superoxide dismutase, tissue plasminogen activator, Factor VIII,
20 Factor IX, apolipoprotein E, apolipoprotein A-I, globins, an IL-2 antagonist, alpha-1
   antitrypsin, ligands for any of the above-mentioned enzymes, and numerous other enzymes
   and their ligands.
            The term "antibody" includes reference to both glycosylated and non-glycosylated
   immunoglobulins of any isotype or subclass or to an antigen-binding region thereof that
25 competes with the intact antibody for specific binding, unless otherwise specified, including
   human, humanized, chimeric, multi-specific, monoclonal, polyclonal, and oligomers or
   antigen binding fragments thereof. Also included are proteins having an antigen binding
   fragment or region such as Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 , Fv, diabodies, Fd, dAb, maxibodies, single
   chain antibody molecules, complementarity determing region (CDR) fragments, scFv,
30 diabodies, triabodies, tetrabodies and polypeptides that contain at least a portion of an
   immunoglobulin that is sufficient to confer specific antigen binding to a target polypeptide.
   The term "antibody" is inclusive of, but not limited to, those that are prepared, expressed,
   created or isolated by recombinant means, such as antibodies isolated from a host cell
   transfected to express the antibody.
35          Examples of antibodies include, but are not limited to, those that recognize any one or
   a combination of proteins including, but not limited to, the above-mentioned proteins and/or
   the following antigens: CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CDIlIa, CD14, CD18, CD20, CD22, CD23,
                                                    12

   CD25, CD33, CD40, CD44, CD52, CD80 (B7.1), CD86 (B7.2), CD147, IL-la, IL-1p, IL-2,
   IL-3, IL-7, IL-4, IL-5, IL-8, IL-10, IL-2 receptor, IL-4 receptor, IL-6 receptor, IL-13 receptor,
   IL-18 receptor subunits, FGL2, PDGF-p and analogs thereof (see US Patent Nos, 5,272,064
   and 5,149,792), VEGF, TGF, TGF-02, TGF-p1, EGF receptor (see US Patent No. 6,235,883)
 5 VEGF receptor, hepatocyte growth factor, osteoprotegerin ligand, interferon gamma, B
   lymphocyte stimulator (BlyS, also known as BAFF, THANK, TALL-1, and zTNF4; see Do
   and Chen-Kiang (2002), Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 13(1): 19-25), C5 complement, IgE,
   tumor antigen CA125, tumor antigen MUCl, PEM antigen, LCG (which is a gene product
   that is expressed in association with lung cancer), HER-2, HER-3, a tumor-associated
10 glycoprotein TAG-72, the SK-I antigen, tumor-associated epitopes that are present in
   elevated levels in the sera of patients with colon and/or pancreatic cancer, cancer-associated
   epitopes or proteins expressed on breast, colon, squamous cell, prostate, pancreatic, lung,
   and/or kidney cancer cells and/or on melanoma, glioma, or neuroblastoma cells, the necrotic
   core of a tumor, integrin alpha 4 beta 7, the integrin VLA-4, B2 integrins, TRAIL receptors
15  1, 2, 3, and 4, RANK, RANK ligand, TNF-a, the adhesion molecule VAP-1, epithelial cell
   adhesion molecule (EpCAM), intercellular adhesion molecule-3 (ICAM-3), leukointegrin
   adhesin, the platelet glycoprotein gp Ilb/IlIa, cardiac myosin heavy chain, parathyroid
   hormone,      rNAPc2    (which   is  an  inhibitor of   factor VIla-tissue    factor), MHC 1,
   carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), tumor necrosis factor (TNF),
20 CTLA-4 (which is a cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen), Fc-y-] receptor, HLA-DR
    10 beta, HLA-DR antigen, sclerostin, L-selectin, Respiratory Syncitial Virus, human
   immunodeficiency      virus (HIV),    hepatitis B virus (HBV), Streptococcus mutans, and
   Staphlycoccus aureus. Specific examples of known antibodies which can be produced using
   the methods of the invention include but are not limited to adalimumab, bevacizumab,
25 infliximab, abciximab, alemtuzumab, bapineuzumab, basiliximab, belimumab, briakinumab,
   canakinumab,     certolizumab   pegol, cetuximab, conatumumab, denosumab, eculizumab,
   gemtuzumab ozogamicin, golimumab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, labetuzumab, mapatumumab,
   matuzumab, mepolizumab, motavizumab, muromonab-CD3, natalizumab, nimotuzumab,
   ofatumumab,      omalizumab,      oregovomab,    palivizumab,    panitumumab,      pemtumomab,
30 pertuzumab, ranibizumab, rituximab, rovelizumab, tocilizumab, tositumomab, trastuzumab,
   ustekinumab, vedolizomab, zalutumumab, and zanolimumab.
             The invention can also be used to harvest recombinant fusion proteins comprising, for
   example, any of the above-mentioned proteins. For example, recombinant fusion proteins
   comprising one of the above-mentioned proteins plus a multimerization domain, such as a
35 leucine zipper, a coiled coil, an Fc portion of an immunoglobulin, or a substantially similar
   protein, can be produced using the methods of the invention. See e.g. W094/10308; Lovejoy
   et al. (1993), Science 259:1288-1293; Harbury et al. (1993), Science 262:1401-05; Harbury et
                                                   13

   al. (1994), Nature 371:80-83;        HAkansson et al.(1999), Structure 7:255-64.      Specifically
   included among such recombinant fusion proteins are proteins in which a portion of a
   receptor is fused to an Fc portion of an antibody such as etanercept (a p75 TNFR:Fc), and
   belatacept (CTLA4:Fc).
 5          For the purposes of this invention, cell culture medium is a media suitable for growth
   of animal cells, such as mammalian cells, in in vitro cell culture.           Cell culture media
   formulations are well known in the art.         Typically, cell culture media are comprised of
   buffers, salts, carbohydrates, amino acids, vitamins and trace essential elements.        The cell
   culture medium may or may not contain serum, peptone, and/or proteins.              Various tissue
10 culture media, including serum-free and defined culture media, are commercially available,
   for example, any one or a combination of the following cell culture media can be used:
   RPMI-1640 Medium, RPMI-1641 Medium, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM),
   Minimum Essential Medium Eagle, F-12K Medium, Ham's F12 Medium, Iscove's Modified
   Dulbecco's Medium, McCoy's 5A Medium, Leibovitz's L-15 Medium, and serum-free media
15 such as EX-CELLTm 300 Series (JRH Biosciences, Lenexa, Kansas), among others.                 Cell
   culture media may be supplemented             with additional or increased concentrations of
   components such as amino acids, salts, sugars, vitamins, hormones, growth factors, buffers,
   antibiotics, lipids, trace elements and the like, depending on the requirements of the cells to
   be cultured and/or the desired cell culture parameters.
20          Cell culture media may be serum-free, protein-free, and/or peptone-free.         "Serum
   free" applies to a cell culture medium that does not contain animal sera, such as fetal bovine
   serum. "Protein-free" applies to cell culture media free from exogenously added protein, such
   as transferrin, protein growth factors IGF-l, or insulin. Protein-free media may or may not
   contain peptones. "Peptone-free" applies to cell culture media which contains no exogenous
25 protein hydrolysates such as aninial and/or plant protein hydrolysates. Cell culture broth or
   like terminology refers to the cell culture media that contains, among other things, viable and
   non-viable mammalian cells, cell metabolites and cellular debris such as nucleic acids,
   proteins and liposomes.
            By cell culture or "culture" is meant the growth and propagation of cells outside of a
30 multicellular organism or tissue. Suitable culture conditions for mammalian cells are known
   in the art. See e.g. Animal cell culture: A Practical Approach, D. Rickwood, ed., Oxford
   University Press, New York (1992).         Mammalian cells may be cultured in suspension or
   while attached to a solid substrate. Fluidized bed bioreactors, hollow fiber bioreactors, roller
   bottles, shake flasks, or stirred tank bioreactors, with or without microcarriers, and operated in
35 a batch, fed batch, continuous, semi-continuous, or perfusion mode are available for
   mammalian cell culture.
                                                    14

            Mammalian cells, such as CHO cells, may be cultured in small scale cultures, such as
   for example, in 100 ml to large scale cell cultures, such as systems that have culture sizes in
   the thousand and tens of thousands mIs, for clinical and commercial manufacturing of protein
   therapeutics.
 5          The cell lines (also referred to as "host cells") are genetically engineered to express a
   polypeptide of commercial or scientific interest. Cell lines are typically derived from a
   lineage arising from a primary culture that can be maintained in culture for an unlimited time.
   Genetically engineering the cell line involves transfecting, transforming or transducing the
   cells with a recombinant polynucleotide molecule, and/or otherwise altering (e.g., by
10 homologous recombination and gene activation or fusion of a recombinant cell with a non
   recombinant cell) so as to cause the host cell to express a desired recombinant polypeptide.
   Methods and vectors for genetically engineering cells and/or cell lines to express a
   polypeptide of interest are well known to those of skill in the art; for example, various
   techniques are illustrated in Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Ausubel et al., eds.
15 (Wiley & Sons, New York, 1988, and quarterly updates); Sambrook et al., Molecular
   Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (Cold Spring Laboratory Press, 1989); Kaufman, R.J., Large
   Scale Mammalian Cell Culture, 1990, pp. 15-69.
             A wide variety of mammalian cell lines suitable for growth in culture are available
   from the American Type Culture Collection (Manassas, Va.) and commercial vendors.
20 Examples of mammalian cell lines commonly used in the industry include VERO, BHK,
   HeLa, CVl (including Cos), MDCK, 293, 3T3, myeloma cell lines (e.g., NSO, NSI), PCl2,
   W138 cells, and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells.            CHO cells are widely used for the
   production of complex recombinant proteins, e.g. cytokines, clotting factors, and antibodies
   (Brasel et al. (1996), Blood 88:2004-2012; Kaufman et al. (1988), J.Biol Chem 263:6352
25 6362; McKinnon et al. (1991), J Mol Endocrinol 6:231-239; Wood et al. (1990), J. Immunol.
   145:3011-3016).     The dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR)-deficient mutant cell lines (Urlaub et
   al. (1980), Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 77: 4216-4220), DXBlI and DG-44, are desirable CHO
   host cell lines because the efficient DHFR selectable and amplifiable gene expression system
   allows high level recombinant protein expression in these cells (Kaufman R.J. (1990), Meth
30 Enzymol 185:537-566).        In addition, these cells are easy to manipulate as adherent or
   suspension cultures and exhibit relatively good genetic stability.        CHO cells and proteins
   recombinantly expressed in them have been extensively characterized and have been
   approved for use in clinical commercial manufacturing by regulatory agencies.
            While the terminology used in this application is standard within the art, definitions
35 of certain terms are provided herein to assure clarity and definiteness to the meaning of the
   claims. Units, prefixes, and symbols may be denoted in their SI accepted form. Numeric
   ranges recited herein are inclusive of the numbers defining the range and include and are
                                                    15

    supportive of each integer within the defined range. Unless otherwise noted, the terms "a" or
    "an" are to be construed as meaning "at least one of'. The section headings used herein are
     for organizational purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter
    described, The methods and techniques described herein are generally performed according
  5 to conventional methods well known in the art and as described in various general and more
    specific references that are cited and discussed throughout the present specification unless
    otherwise indicated. See, e.g., Sambro6k et al. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 3rd
    ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2001) and Ausubel et
    al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Publishing Associates (1992), and
 10 Harlow and Lane Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press,
    Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1990).       All documents, or portions of documents, cited in this
    application, including but not limited to patents, patent applications, articles, books, and
    treatises, are hereby expressly incorporated by reference.
               The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments
 15 described herein that are intended as single illustrations of individual aspects of the invention,
    and functionally equivalent methods and components are within the scope of the invention,
    Indeed, various modifications of the invention, in addition to those shown and described
    herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and
    accompanying drawings. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the
20  appended claims.
                                              EXAMPLES
          Example 1
25            This   experiment     compares    different    molecular    weight    preparations    of
    dial ly Idimethylammonium chloride (PDADMAC) for flocculating mammalian cell culture
    broth and comparing their settling times.
              CHO cells expressing a recombinant monoclonal antibody were grown in 2,000 L
    bioreactors in a fed batch culture for 15 days. Cell culture broth was cooled to 10*C prior to
30  testing.    A series of spin flasks were set up with IL of cell culture broth in each flask,
    PDADMAC was supplied as 20% (w/v) liquid (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) and a working
    stock solution used in all these experiments was prepared by diluting with purified water to
    10% (w/v). PDADMAC, at molecular weights of 100,000 - 200,000; 200,000 - 350,000; and
    400,000 - 500,000 was added to each flask to a final concentration between 29 and 86 pg
35  PDADMAC per Total cell density. The PDADMAC solutions were added continuously for
    about 1 minute and incubated for 15 minutes, with stirring at 70-80 rpm at 10*C. The floc was
                                                    16

   allowed to settle at ambient temperature.          This material was used for the settling time
   determination,
            A second fed batch culture was grown in a I,OOOL disposable reactor for 15 days.
   The cell culture broth was maintained at -36*C.         A series of spin flasks were set up with IL
 5 of cell culture broth in each flask. PDADMAC at molecular weights of < 100,000, 100,000
   200,000; 200,000 - 350,000; and 400,000 - 500,000 was added to each flask to a final
   concentration between 25 and 76 pg PDADMAC per Total cell density. The PDADMAC
   solutions were added continuously for about         1 minute and incubated for 15 minutes, with
   stirring at 70-80 rpm at -36"C. The floc was allowed to settle at ambient temperature. This
10 material was used for the turbidity determination.
            Total cell density was determined by adding the total number of viable cells to the
   total non-viable cells as measured by Trypan Blue exclusion using a Cedex Cell Counter and
   Analyzer (Roche Innovatis AG, Indianapolis, IN).              The flocculated solutions were then
   transferred into IL glass graduated cylinders to determine flocculated packed settling rate.
15 Readings were taken at 15 minute intervals for 90 minutes and the relative flocculation
   volume was calculated as Settled Floc Volume/Total Volume.
            The supernatant was removed from the settled flocculated cell mass by decanting
   followed by     O.2p filter.   Turbidity was measured using a 2100P turbidimeter (Hach,
   Loveland, CO),
20          Figures 2A and 2B show flocculation with PDADMAC having an average molecular
   weight greater than 200,000, but less than 500,000 results in an optimum settling time and
   clarity compared to PDADMAC with an average molecular weight less than 200,000.
   Example 2
25          This experiment compares the amount of PDADMAC necessary for flocculating
   mammalian cell culture broth expressing a recombinant antibody from a small cell line, such
   as a diploid cell, and a large cell line, such as a tetraploid cell line.
            Diploid and tetraploid cell lines were grown as described above. A series of spin
   flasks were set up with I L of cell culture broth in each flask from each of the diploid and
30 tetraploid cultures.   In this experiment and all the following experiments, unless otherwise
   noted, PDADMAC having an average molecular weight of 400,000 to 500,000 is used.
   PDADMAC was added to each flask to a final concentration as shown in Table 2. Total cell
   density was determined as described above.
                                                     17

   Table 2 Final concentrations of PDADMAC for diploid and tetraploid cultures
                 Cell Type             Final PDADMAC Concentration
                                           I I pg per Total cell density
                    15-20 l.m
                                           18 pg per Total cell density
          cells, such as a
                                           25 pg per Total cell density
          diploid cell
                                           30 pg per Total cell density
                                           29 pg per Total cell density
                   21-24 ptm               43 pg per Total cell density
          cells, such as a                 57 pg per Total cell density
          tetraploid cell                  71 pg per Total cell density
                                           86 pg per Total cell density
            The PDADMAC solutions were added continuously and stirred as described above.
 5 The floc was allowed to settle at ambient temperature.
            The flocculated solutions were then transferred into IL glass graduated cylinders to
   determine flocculated packed settling rate. Readings were taken at 15 minute intervals for 90
   to 120 minutes and the relative flocculation volume was calculated as described above
            Figures 3A shows flocculation with PDADMAC at a concentration of 25 pg per Total
10 cell had the fastest settling time.
            Figure 3B shows flocculation with PDADMAC at a concentration of 57 pg per Total
   cell had the fastest settling time.
   Example 3
15          This experiment looks at the impact of PDADMAC flocculation for cell cultures that
   produce high lactate levels and/or have high cell densities.
            CHO cells expressing a recombinant monoclonal antibody were grown in 1,000L
   disposable bioreactor for 14 days. The cell culture broth was at ambient temperature.     Four
   spin flasks were set up with I L of cell culture broth in each flask.      Prior to adding the
20 PDADMAC, each flask was spiked with either 3 g/L, 6g/L or 9 g/L Na DL-Lactate, at 60%
   (w/w) (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO), or a no lactate as a control.      PDADMAC was then
   added to each flask to a final concentration of 25 pg/Total cell density (PDADMAC stock as
   described above), Total cell density was determined as described above.
            PDADMAC was added continuously at ambient temperature and stirred as described
25 above. The floc was then allowed to settle at ambient temperature.
                                                   18

            The flocculated solutions were then transferred into IL glass graduated cylinders to
   determine flocculated packed settling rate. Readings were taken at various intervals for 1500
   minutes and the relative flocculation volume was calculated as described above.
            A second batch of CHO cell cultures were grown in a 1,000L disposable bioreactor,
 5 in a perfusion culture for 20 days. Cell broth was cooled to ambient temperature. Prior to
   PDADMAC addition, the cell broth was diluted 25%, 50% and 75% with cell culture
   medium, Cell broth at a packed cell volume of 44% was not diluted prior to PDADMAC
   addition,   The final concentration of PDADMAC was 25 to 26 pg/Total cell density. The
   PDADMAC addition rate was ~ I minute, with stirring and settling at ambient temperature as
10 described above.
            The flocculated solutions were then transferred into IL glass graduated cylinders to
   determine flocculated packed settling rate, Readings were taken at various intervals for 1400
   minutes and the relative flocculation volume was calculated as described above.
            Figures 4A and 4B show that settling rates significantly decrease with cell culture
15 processes that have high lactate levels (>2-3 g/L) and/or produce high cell densities of
   biomass (>10% packed cell volume).
   Example 4
            This experiment compares the settling times of different diluents used in combination
20 with PDADMAC.
            CHO cells expressing a recombinant monoclonal antibody were grown in a          1,000L
   disposable bioreactor in a perfusion culture for 18 days.        Cell broth from Day 16 was
   delivered for testing at 36*C and was cooled down to ambient temperature for 2.5 hours prior
   to flocculation.    Addition and settling was performed at ambient.       Prior to PDADMAC
25 addition, the cell broth was diluted to 67% with the various dilutents. Lactate level was 5g/L.
   PDADMAC addition rate        - I minute with an incubation period of 15 minutes at 75-85 rpm.
   PDADMAC stock solution was at 10% (w/v) from the original stock solution of 20 (w/v) with
   purified water. Final concentration of PDADMAC was 25pg/Total cell density. The floc was
   allowed to settle at ambient temperature.
30          A series of diluents was prepared; the concentrations are shown in Table 3.
   Table 3 Final concentrations of various diluents
                        Compound                         Final Concentration
           Sucrose                                          90 g/L
           (EMD, Philadelphia, PA)
           Betaine                                          32 g/L
           (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO)
                                                  19

                          Compound                          Final Concentration
             PEG 1,000                                         146g/L
             (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO)
             PEG 6,000                                        260g/L
             (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO)
             Dextran 70/Betaine                               Dextran 100 g/L
             (Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO)                   Betaine 30g/L
             Cell culture medium                              Control
              The flocculated solutions were then transferred into IL glass graduated cylinders to
    determine flocculated packed settling rate. Readings were taken at various intervals for 1600
    minutes and the relative flocculation volume was calculated as described above.
  5           As shown in Figure 5, the combination of PDADMAC and PEG 6,000 has the fastest
    settling time.    The combination of PDADMAC with PEG 6,000, PEGI,000 or              Dextran
    70/Betaine had improved settling rates compared to PDADMAC alone.The addition of non
     ionic polymers significantly increased the floc settling rate. The combination of PDADMAC
    with either PEG or Dextran also decreased settling time compared to PDADMAC alone,
10   independent of lactate levels in the culture.
    Example 5
              This experiment looks at the impact of the combination of PDADMAC and PEG
    3,000 on settling times for cell cultures with high cell densities.
15            CHO cells expressing a recombinant monoclonal antibody were grown in 80L
    bioreactor in a perfusion culture for 20 days.       Cell culture broth was cooled to ambient
    temperature prior to testing. Prior to PDADMAC addition, the cell broth was diluted to 10%
    with the 36% (w/v) Sucrose or 25% (w/v) PEG 3,000 (both in purified water). Final cell
    broth sucrose concentration was 3.6% (w/v) and the final PEG 3,000 concentration was 2.5%
20  (w/v).    PDADMAC addition rate - I minute with a incubation period of 15 minutes at 75-85
    rpm. PDADMAC stock solution was at 10% (w/v) from the original stock solution of 20
    (w/v) with purified water. Final concentration of PDADMAC was 22 pg/Total cell density
    for PEG 3,000 and 25pg/Total cell density for Sucrose and control or undiluted cell broth.
    Control or undiluted cell broth PCV was 48%. The diluted cell broth PCV = (control PCV X
25  dilution factor) = 43.2%.
             The flocculated solutions were then transferred into IL glass graduated cylinders to
    determine flocculated packed settling rate. Readings were taken at various intervals for 240
    minutes and the relative flocculation volume was calculated as described above.
                                                    20

            As shown in Figure 6, the combination of PDADMAC and PEG 3,000 resulted in
   more rapid settling than PDADMAC alone.          As seen in Example 3, the settling rate for
   PDADMAC alone significantly decreased with an increase in cell density. The combination
   of PEG 3,000 with PDADMAC decreased               the flocculent settling time over that of
 5 PDADMAC alone, independent of the cell culture process density (in this case 43% packed
   cell volume).
   Example 6
            This experiment looks at the impact of the timing of the PEG addition with
10 PDADMAC on settling times.
            CHO cells expressing a recombinant monoclonal antibody were grown in 80L
   bioreactor in a 19 day perfusion cell culture process. Cell culture broth was cooled to 21'C.
   Three spin flasks were set up with IL of cell culture broth in each flask.       To one flask
   PDADMAC was added at a concentration of 45pg/Total cell density (molecular weight
15 400,000-500,000).      To another flask PDADMAC 45pg/Total cell density and PEG 3,000,
   15% (w/v) were added as a bolus addition (the 1-Step Method).              To the third flask,
   PDADMAC was added at a concentration of 45pg/Total cell density and PEG 3,000 at a final
   concentration of 15% (w/v) was added following the PDADMAC addition (the 2-Step
   Method).     PDADMAC addition rate was -1 minute. PDADMACIPEG addition rate was -5
20 minutes.     All additions were at ambient temperature.    All flasks were incubated for 15
   minutes at 75-85 rpm. The floc was allowed to settle at ambient temperature.
            The flocculated solutions were then transferred into IL glass graduated cylinders to
   determine flocculated packed settling rate. Readings were taken at various intervals for 240
   minutes and the relative flocculation volume was calculated as described above.
25          As shown in Figure 7, the combination of PDADMAC and PEG 3,000 either added
   simultaneously or sequentially decreased the flocculent settling time over that of PDADMAC
   alone.
            A large scale culture was next prepared.      CHO cells expressing a recombinant
   monoclonal antibody were grown in an 80L bioreactor in a perfusion culture for 19 days.
30 Cell culture broth was cooled to 21'C.      PDADMAC at a concentration of 45pg/Total cell
   density and PEG 3,000 at a final concentration of 15% (w/v) were added simultaneously at
   ambient temperature, addition rate was 21 minutes, followed by 5 minute incubation at
   100rpm. The floc was allowed to settle at ambient temperature.
            Once the flocculent has settled (primary settling), the clarified supernatant was be
35 harvested by pumping the fluid from the bioreactor followed by filtration through a depth
   filter containing diatomaceous earth followed by a 0.2V cut off membrane filter.
                                                 21

             The floc was washed in an equal volume of 9% sucrose solution to remove any
    residual recombinant protein and allowed to settle for 16 hours. Once floc settled (secondary
    settling) the clarified secondary supernatant was harvested as described above.
             Clarified harvested cell culture supernatants from the above flocculations (small scale
 5  and large scale) were purified using Protein A chromatography followed by a product quality
    determination.       The Protein A eluate was not neutralized prior to product quality
    determination, Protein A eluate product quality attributes measured were molecular variants
    as measured by SEC, host cell proteins as determined by ELISA.
             The Protein A purified material was then passed over a CEX column at pH 7.5.
10
    Table 4
                            SEC                                     CEX @ pH 7.5
                                                            CHOP                     Post
    Harvest                 HMW        Monomer LMW          (ppm)   Pre    Main      Shoulder Post
    Control
                             11.6%     87.2 %     1.2%      9,602   8.7% 82.9%       6.8%      1.6%
    Small Scale
                            9.2%       89.6%      1.2%      3,950   8.2% 83.5%       6.8%      1,6%
    2 Step Method
    Small Scale
                            9.0%       89.8%      1.2%      3,602   8.2% 83.5%       6.8%      1.5%
    1 Step Method
   Large Scale
                            9.6%       89.2%      1.2%      5,056   8.1%   83.5%     7.0%      1;4%
    Primary Settle
   Large Scale
   Secondary Settle         11.7%      86.9%      1.5%      11,268  8.4% 83.8%       6.4%      1.5%
   with Sucrose Wash
             Product quality is similar between the control and the primary flocculate harvest for
   both scales.      The PDADMAC/PEG primary harvest tends to remove the higher order
15 aggregate which is reflected by the low HMW levels in the Protein A pool. A reduction in the
   host cell protein level for PDADMAC/PEG harvest was observed.            The resuspension with
   sucrose resulted in slightly higher levels of CHOP and HMW compared to the primary
   PDADMAC/PEG harvest and is believed to be the resolubization of these impurities.
20 Example 7
             This experiment looks at the impact on settling time by adding a surfactant along with
   PDADMAC and PEG.
                                                    22

             CHO cells expressing a recombinant monoclonal antibody were grown in an 80L
   bioreactor in a perfusion cell culture for 15 days. Cell broth from day 14 was cooled to 300 C
   for testing. Two spin flasks were set up with IL of cell culture broth in each flask. To one
   flask PDADMAC and PEG 3,000 were added simultaneously, PDADMAC was added at a
 5 concentration of 25pg/Fotal cell density (molecular weight 400,000-500,000) and PEG 3,000
   at a final concentration of 3% (w/v). To the other flask Triton X-1 00 at a final concentration
   of 0.05% (v/v) was added in addition to PDADMAC and PEG at the above concentrations.
   (Triton X-100 stock solution was at 10% (v/v) from an original stock solution of 20% (v/v),
   Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, Mo.) The three components were added simultaneously.              The
10 addition rate was -l minute, with incubation for 15 minutes at 75-85 prm. All flasks were
   spun as described in earlier examples. The floc was allowed to settle at ambient temperature.
            The flocculated solutions were then transferred into IL glass graduated cylinders to
   determine flocculated packed settling rate. Readings were taken at various intervals for 240
   minutes and the relative flocculation volume was calculated as described above.
15          As shown in Figure 8, the addition of Triton X-l00 along with PDADMAC and PEG
   3,000, decreased the flocculent settling time over that of PDADMAC and PEG 3,000 alone.
                                                  23

00661010
         The claims defining the invention are as follows:
          I.    A mammalian cell culture harvest method comprising
                culturing mammalian cells expressing a recombinant protein in a cell culture medium for a
                predetermined time or until a desired cell density and/or packed cell volume is achieved,
                adding a cationic polymer and a non-ionic polymer to the cell culture medium initiating
                flocculation,
                mixing the cell culture medium during flocculation,
                allowing the flocculent to settle for a primary settle, and
                recovering the primary clarified supernatant.
         2.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the cationic polymer is a polymer of
                dial lyldimethylammonium chloride, polydiallyldimethyammonium chloride,
                polyethyleneimine, polyacrylamide or chitosan.
         3.     The mammalian cell culture harvest method according to claim 1, wherein the cationic
                polymer is polydiallyldimethyammonium chloride.
         4.     The mammalian cell culture harvest method according to claim 1, wherein the non-ionic
                polymer is selected from polyethyleneglycol and dextran.
         5.     The mammalian cell culture harvest method according to claim 1, wherein the non-ionic
                polymer is selected from PEG 3,000 and PEG 6,000.
         6.     The method according to claim 5, wherein the concentration of PEG 3,000 is at or about 3%
                to at or about 4.5%.
         7.     The method according to claim 5, wherein the concentration of PEG 6,000 is at or about
                2.5% to at or about 3.5%.
         8.     The mammalian cell culture harvest method according to claim 1, further comprising adding
                a non-ionic surfactant to the cell culture medium.
         9.     The method according to claim 8, wherein the non-ionic surfactant is Sapoin or Triton
                X100.
         10.    The mammalian cell culture harvest method according to claim 8, wherein the non-ionic
                surfactant is Triton X-100.
                                                           24

00661010
          11.  The method according to claim 10, wherein the concentration of Triton X100 is 0.05%
               (w/v).
          12.  The mammalian cell culture harvest method according to claim 1, further comprising
              washing the primary settle flocculent
               allowing the washed flocculent to settle for a secondary settle, and
               recovering the secondary clarified supernatant.
          13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the flocculent from the primary settle is washed
               in a 9% sucrose solution.
          14, The method according to claim 1, where the cationic polymer and the non-ionic polymer are
              added simultaneously.
         15.  The method according to claim 1, where the cationic polymer is added first and mixed for at
              least 30 seconds followed by addition of the non-ionic polymer.
         16.  The method according to claim 1, where the cationic polymer, the non-ionic polymer and a
              non-ionic surfactant are added simultaneously.
         17.  The method according to claim 1, where the cationic polymer is added first and mixed for at
              least 30 seconds followed by addition of the non-ionic polymer and a non-ionic surfactant.
         18.  The method according to claim 1, wherein the polydiallyldimethyammonium chloride is
              added at a concentration of at or about 20 to at or about 90 pg/total cell density.
         19.  The method according to claim 1, wherein the polydiallyldimethyammonium chloride is
              added at a concentration of at or about 25 pg/total cell density wherein the mammalian cells
              originate from a diploid cell line.
         20.  The method according to claim 1, wherein the polydiallyldimethyammonium chloride is
              added between 43 pg/total cell density and 57 pg/total cell density wherein the mammalian
              cells originate from a tetraploid cell line.
         21.  The method according to claim 1, wherein the mammalian cell culture medium is between
              36'C and 20'C.
         22.  The method according to claim 1, wherein the mammalian cell culture medium is at or
              above 20'C.
                                                           25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
