FILTRATION MEDIA FOR FILTRATION/PURIFICATION OF A LIQUID
OR GAS, RELATED REACTOR MODULES, FILTRATION DEVICES AND
METHODS
ABSTRACT
A filtration medium (11) comprising at least one mat (35) having a first surface (25) and a
second surface, wherein at least one of the first surface (25) or the second surface is substantially
non-planar and has a substantially non-uniform convolution profile.

                                       TITLE OF THE INVENTION
   [0001]        Filtration Media for Filtration/Purification of a Liquid or Gas, Related Reactor
   Modules, Filtration Devices and Methods
                               CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
 5 [0002]        This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application No. 61/106,467, filed October 17, 2008, the entire disclosure of which is
   incorporated herein by reference.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0003]        Larger scale biological purification/filtration of gas and liquid materials requires
10 correspondingly larger scale purification/filtration devices, including filtration media. The
   design and development of such devices is limited by several parameters, for example, the need
   for large specific surface area filter media (to increase efficiency), the tendency of filtration
   media to collapse or fold under the combined load of biomass and liquid, and the commercial
   pressure to minimize the footprint of the device. Filter media composed of a corrugated
15 bacterial bed rolled into a "jelly roll" configuration with spaced apart channels for water flow
   have been suggested for use in the purification of sewer water. Other prior art devices use
   external structures to provide structural strength to the media material within the reactor
   vessels, for example "wagon wheel" configured metal scaffolding around which filter media is
   disposed or web-like support elements that encased the filter media. However, the external
20  structures alone cannot prevent collapse of the media and such configurations may be prone to
    clogging by excess biomass. Moreover, the scaffold-like support structures occupy space in the
   reactor that could be filled by 'live' media, thereby eroding the efficiency of the system.
    10004]       Thus, there remains need in the art for filtration media, modules and devices that
    optimize performance of the filtration activity, including optimizing mass transfer (and
25  therefore optimization of filtration/bio logical oxidation efficiency), provide for retention of
    more microorganisms per unit of volume of media, and that enhance the "life expectancy" of
    the filtration media itself, allowing for longer use before replacement or maintenance

   (necessitated, for example, by collapse of mat material or clogging of mat with biomass that has
   overproliferated) as compared to conventional filtration equipment.
                              BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0005]       The invention includes a filtration medium for the purification of a liquid or a gas
 5 material that includes a mat having a first surface and a second surface. At least one of the first
   surface or the second surface is substantially non-planar. The mat comprises a foamed resin
   having a density of about I lbs/ft3 to about 3 lbs/ft3 and/or an indentation load deflection of
   about 35 lbs to about 150 lbs.
    [0006]      Also included in the invention is a filtration medium for the purification of a liquid
10 or a gas material comprising at least two mats, each mat having a first surface and a second
   surface, wherein at least one of the first surface or the second surface is substantially non-planar
   and has a substantially non- uniform convolution profile.
    [0007]      Included are devices for the filtration of a liquid and/or a gas that comprise one or
   more reactor modules. The reactor modules include the filtration medium and a substantially
15  cylindrical chamber and/ or a substantially rectangular chamber that may include sides, a top
    and a bottom. The chamber additionally includes a base that extends from the sides of the
    chamber towards the interior of the chamber and the filtration medium is disposed within the
    chamber.
    [0008]      Methods of filtering a gas or liquid material using the filtration medium are also
20  provided, as are methods of fabrication of the modules.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0009]      The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of
    embodiments of the invention may be better understood when read in conjunction with the
    appended drawings. It should be understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the
25  precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown. In the drawings:
    [0010]      Fig. 1A shows a perspective view of an exemplary chamber into which the filtration
    medium may be disposed to form a reactor module;
    [00111      Fig. lB shows a cutaway longitudinal cross-section (section A-A) of an exemplary
    reactor module;
30  [0012]       Fig. 1C shows a perspective view of the module of LA;
     [00131      Fig. 2 shows a perspective view of an exemplary device that includes a lid and
    reactor module;
                                                       2

   [00141       Fig. 3 shows a perspective view of a different exemplary device that includes a lid
   and a reactor module;
   [0015]       Figs. 4A and 4B are schematic drawings illustrating the winding or rolling of the
   mat around a hypothetical axis X-X;
 5 [0016]       Fig. 5 is a schematic drawing of several exemplary convolution profiles for the non
   planar surfaces of the mat and well as plan-view examples of the placement of the convolutions
   on the mat;
   [00171       Fig. 6 is a perspective cut-away view of a device including a reactor module that has
   the filter media arranged in a vertical stacked configuration;
10 [00181        Fig. 7 (including Figures 7A and 7B) are graphs showing H2S removal performance
   of a device of the invention at a 7 second residence time; and
   [00191        Fig. 8 is a chart showing odor removal as compared to residence time of a gas
   filtering device of the invention.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
15 [00201        The invention provides a filtration medium that can be used to filter various liquid
   or gas materials. The filtration medium may be inoculated with a biomass (most often
   primarily bacterial or fungal (yeast) in nature; often a specific strain or mixture of strains) that
   oxidizes or breaks down compounds in the gas or liquid as it passes across the medium. The
   filtration media, modules, and devices of the invention were developed to emphasize
20 performance of the filtration activity, including enhancement of mass transfer (and therefore
   enhancement of filtration/oxidation efficiency) and improvement of the adherence of
   microorganisms to the media (providing increased nuinber of microorganisms per unit volume
   of media) as well as enhance the "life expectancy" of the filtration medium itself, allowing for
   longer use before replacement or maintenance of the filtration medium (necessitated, for
25 example, by collapse of mat material or clogging of mat with biomass that has overproliferated)
   as compared to conventional biological filtration mediums and/or modules.
    [0021]       The invention includes a filtration medium for the purification or filtration of a
    liquid or a gas material, such as wastewater, or reduction and elimination of odorous
    compounds in water, gas or other emissions. The filtration medium includes a mat that has a
30  first surface and second surface and may be of any size or format. In general, it may be
    desirable that the mat has a substantially rectangular prism format; however, depending on the
    end use and the specifics of the module or device into which it is to be fitted, the size, shape,
                                                      3

   and format may be varied. In an embodiment, the mat has thickness (i.e., length of Z axis of
   the mat) of about 1/4 inches to about 4 inches, alternatively, about 3/4 inches to about 3 inches,
   or about 1 inch to about 2 inches in thickness. In moSt applications the mat may be 1 inch thick
   or greater.
 5 [0022]       As explained above, the length and width of the mat may vary, but in most
   circumstances it may be preferable that the length dimension of the mat is greater than the
   width dimension. For example, the length dimension of the mat may be about 2 to about 35
   times greater than the width dimension or about 400 to about 750 times greater than the width
   dimension. In some embodiments, the mat may be any shape, including plan view polygon
10 (irregular or regular), circle, rectangle (including square), oval, ellipse, or triangle. The format
   of the mat will vary depending on the format of the reactor chamber that is selected.
    [00231      The mat or mats used may be unitary or may be formed of two or more sections of
   mat pieces together to form the desired geometry. The sections may be attached to one another
    in any manner, such as, for example, by glue, staples, they may be sewed together or joined by
15 heat fusion or heat seaming.
    [0024]       In an embodiment, the mat has a first surface and a second surface, at least one of
   which is non-planar, wholly or in part. By non-plana, it is meant that the surface, when viewed
    fi-om the side (i.e., as a profile) is not flat, but rather is convoluted and exhibits surfaces
   terminating in at least two different planes in space (the "peak" and the "valley" points),
20  thereby expanding the surface area of the mat available for bacterial (biomass) adherence. The
    structures that provide the non-planar characteristics are described by their "convolution
    profiles" as discussed below.
    [0025]       In some embodiments, the mat may have each side with a non-planar surface. The
    mat may be multilayered; for example it may have 2 to 95 layers. As an example, the mat may
25  consist of three or more layers, wherein one or both of the outer layer(s) had a non-planar
    surface (i.e., bears a convolution profile as noted above).
    [0026]       At least one of the mat's surfaces has a non-continuous convolution profile, that is,
    when viewed in cross section the surface is substantially non-planar and such characteristic is
    provided to the surface by convolutions that are arranged so that, when sequential cross sections
30  of the mat are viewed, the "peak" and "valley" of the first cross section are located along the
    mat in a different place than the "peak" and "valley" 6'f the subsequent cross section. This non
    uniform placement of the convolutions provides turbulence to the material being passed
                                                           4

   through the filter. This differs from a foam mat having uniform corrugations, that is a profile
   such that when sequential cross sections of such a mat are viewed, they are substantially
   identical in relative placement of the "peak" and the "valley" of the convolutions.
   [00271        The surface convolutions may take the form of random convolutions, ordered or
 5 patterned convolutions or any combination of these. For example, with reference to Figure 5,
   the convolution profile of the surface(s) may be an egg crate profile, a sine wave profile (such
   as for example, a short dine wave profile), a rectangular profile, a zig-zag rectangular profile, a
   chevron profile, a projecting villi (fingerlike projections) profile, a compound villi, a tractor
   wheel profile, or a V-shaped profile. In an embodiment, each of the first and the second
10 surfaces of the mat are non-planar, and may have the same or different convolution profiles. In
   some embodiments, it may be preferred that the selected profile has a peak-to-valley dimension
   of about 0.1 inch to about 2 inches or about 0.5 inches to about 1.5 inches.
    [0028]       The surface convolutions may be placed or spaced on the surface(s) of the mat (5 )
    in any manner to create the profiles discussed above. For example, as shown in Figure 5, zig
15 zag or wave-like patterns may be placed longitudinally in an evenly spaced manner on the mat
    surface. Alternatively, the placement of the convolution (as viewed in plan view) may be
    random or ordered. See, Figure 5 for non-limiting examples. In an embodiment, it may be
    preferred that the convoluted surfaces are arranged so that the non-uniform channels that are
    created are oriented to face the path of the flow stream of the gas or liquid, although other
20  arrangements may be used.
    [0029]       The mat may comprise a foamed resin. The resin may be any known or developed
    in the art that permits at least a minimal level of bacterial adhesion. Thermoplastic resins may
    be preferred. In some embodiments, the resin may be, for example, a phenolic resin, a urethane
    resin, a polyurethane resin, a polyolefin, a nylon, a polystyrene, polypropylene, polyethylene,
25  polyether, polyester and/or copolymer and derivatives of such polymers. The foamed resin may
    be a reticulated or open cell foamed resin.
    [0030]       In some embodiments, it may be preferred that the foamed resin is a polyurethane,
    an ester polyurethane, or an ether polyurethane. Such foamed resins may be prepared by any
    means known in the art. As an example, if the selected foamed resin is an ether polyurethane
30  foam, it may be made by, for example, by first forming a cellular polyurethane foam that has a
    network of a least some strands and at least some cell windows by mixing together foam
    forming compounds.
                                                       5

   [0031]      As is known to a person of skill in the art, the recipes for polyurethane foam are
   expressed in terms of parts by weight per 100 parts of polyo 1. Thus, for example, for each 100
   parts by weight of a polyether polyol, the foam formulation according to the invention includes:
   about 20.0 to about 60.0 parts by weight of an isocyanate; about 1.5 to about 5.0 parts of a
 5 blowing agent, such as water; about 0.20 to about 4.0 parts of a blow catalyst; about 0.0 to
   about 1.0 parts of a gel catalyst, and about 1.0 to about 3.0 parts of stabilizing surfactant, such
   as a silicone surfactant. Other additives such as dyes, pigments, colorants, crosslinking
   additives may also be incorporated into the foam formulation. After the foam forming
   components have been mixed together, the foam is permitted to rise and cure, preferably under
10 atmospheric temperature and pressure. The resulting foam has pore sizes preferably in the
   range of about 8 to about 50 pores per linear inch. The foam is further reticulated to remove
   any cell windows. This process renders the foam with minimum resistance to fluid flow.
   Reticulation is carried out by melting the windows by, for example, a high temperature flame
   front to heat the cell windows or walls to above the melting point of the polymer. Thus, by
15 carefully regulating the conditions under which this process is carried out, the cell windows can
   be melted without adversely affecting or melting the skeletal strands. The resulting foam will
   permit air flows through the foam in a range of about 10 to about 50 cubic feet per minute when
   measured through a 2 inch by 2 inch by 1 inch foam sample.
   [0032]       Regardless of the type of foamed resin selected, the selected material or materials
20 may be substantially hydrophobic or substantially hydrophilic, depending on the specific end
   application of the mat and the desired level of bacterial adherence necessary or desired. The
   material may be selected for its inherent capacity to promote the growth of certain desirable
   bacterial strains and/or retard the growth of other, less desirable microorganisms, depending on
   the end application for the media. In some embodiments, it is desirable that the materials
25 selected are suitable for maintaining a bacterial population so that, in practice, at least 90%, at
   least 80%, at least 70 %, or at least 60% of the volume of filter medium is capable of supporting
   biomass, thereby improving the number of microorganisms per unit volume and, consequently,
   the efficiency per unit volume of the system.
   [00331       In some embodiments where the filtered material is a gas, it may be preferred that
30 the material selected has a porosity of at least about 99%, at least about 95%, at least about
   90%, or at least about 85%, to facilitate permeation of the gas phase to the bacterial population.
                                                      6

   [00341       Additionally, the mat may be coated with a material that enhances bacterial
   attachment (and/or selectively promotes or retards growth of specific microorganism) and/or
   such additives may be mixed into the foamed resin material prior to cure. For example, the
   foamed resin may contain an anti-mycotic or a differentially selective antibacterial compound.
 5 The foamed resin may be coated with any substance to alter or enhance desirable properties.
   Suitable coatings may include acrylic polymer and/or acrylic copolymers and latex emulsions.
   [0035]       In an embodiment, the mat of the filtration medium is configured into a cylindrical
   format (33). With reference to Figure 4A and 4B, this may be accomplished by rolling or
   winding the mat (35) around a hypothetical winding axis X-X (29) so that the first surface (25)
10 contacts the second surface at a contact point (37). Such contact between the surfaces may be
   continuous or discontinuous contact. In an embodiment that may be preferred, at least the first
   surface (25) is non-planar and bears projecting convolutions, and the mat (35) is wound around
   the hypothetical axis X-X (29) such that the projecting convolutions of the first surface (25) are
   present at the exterior (or the interior, if desired) of the concentric layers created by winding.
15 [0036]       The winding tension applied will vary depending on the material used, the type of
   convolutions, the end application and other factors. However, in an embodiment, it may be
   desirable to have a winding tension of about 1 to about 40 lbs per foam width (ft) or about 2 to
   about 20 lbs per foam width (ft). In an embodiment, the winding tension may be about 4 lbs/ft.
   The modification of winding tension allows for adjustment in turbulence created by the medium
20 and to which the filtered material is subjected as it passes though the medium.
    [0037]      In an embodiment, the mat is rolled with sufficient winding tension such that contact
   of at least a portion of first surface (25) to the second surface is made. If too much space is
   permitted between the layers of the rolled cylindrical format (33), the liquid or gas material
    may pass through the medium at too high a rate to enable mass transfer at optimum efficiency.
25  In an embodiment where the filtration medium is used to remove certain odorous compounds
    from air, it may be desirable to ensure that the first surface and the second surface of the mat
    are substantially in continuous contact when the mat is rolled in cylindrical format. Preferably,
    the mat is wound in a manner that avoids formation of substantially any straight line or direct
    channels through the filter medium.
30  [0038]       In an alternative configuration, the mat used may be of a polygon geometry (such as
    a rectangular) format. Two or more mats of substantially similar dimensions may be arranged
    together in a vertical stack, as shown for example in Figure 6. In this arrangement, each surface
                                                        7

   of each mat is in physical contact with the surface of the adjacent mat. The degree of contact of
   the mat surfaces may be modulated by addition or lessening of a horizontal compressive force
   applied to the mats, that is a compressive force applied in the direction of an axis that is
   substantially horizontal to the vertical axis of the stack. This force may be applied, for
 5 example, by wiring or binding the vertical stack together prior to insertion in a chamber, or may
   be applied by the sidewalls, once the individual loose mats are assembled within the chamber to
   form a reactor. By modulating the degree of contact between the mat surfaces, the amount
   and/or flow rate of gas or liquid through the medium can be optimized in each reactor
   regardless of any other factors, such as mat thickness, size and shapes of convolutions, size of
10 reactor, etc.
   [00391       The selected foamed resin used for the mat may have one or more mechanical
   characteristics that provide structural support for the mat during the filtration process once it is
   loaded with biomass and fluid weight. In an embodiment, the foamed resin has at least one
   mechanical characteristic chosen from a density of about 1 lbs/ft3 to about 3 lbs/ft3 ,
                                                                            3
15 alternatively, about 1.2 lbs/ft3 to about 2.5 lbs/ft, or about 1.8 lbs/ft .
    [00401      Additionally or alternatively, it may be preferable that the foamed resin from which
   the mat is made of a moderate to high firmness. Firmness may be quantified by several
   methods/protocols in the art, including determination of a given material's indentation load
   deflection. Indentation load deflection (ILD) is the force required to deflect the foam 25% (by
20 volume) in pounds (lbs). ILD is a well-known method of analysis and may be carried out, for
    example, as directed in ASTM D3574-95, the contents of which are incorporated herein by
   reference.
    [0041]      In an embodiment of the invention, one of the mechanical characteristics of the
    foamed resin is an indentation load deflection of about 35 lbs to about 150 lbs, about 75 lbs to
25  about 120 lbs, or about 85 lbs to about 105 lbs. In may be suitable for the foamed resin to
    exhibit both a higher density and a greater firmness (i.e., within the parameters noted above),
    although the presence of only one of these mechanical characteristics may be present if the mat
    has sufficient mechanical strength to bear the load of biomass and/or added liquid in the
    specific application into which is it placed.
30  [00421      The mechanical characteristics of density and/or ILD may be uniform throughout
    the foamed resin of the mat, or the resin may be formulated or assembled such that the
    mechanical characteristic(s) vary from area to area of the mat. For example, if the mat is in the
                                                         8

   form of a substantially rectangular prism, it may be desirable that the mechanical
   characteristic(s) of the foamed resin is present as a decreasing or increasing gradient along the
   X-axis of the prism, i.e., a hypothetical geometric axis initiating at a point on the first surface
   and terminating at a point on the second surface. (For purposes of clarity, it is noted that this
 5 geometric axis is an axis of the mat itself and is therefore different that the winding axis
   described above). As an example, the ILD of the foamed resin may be about 100 lbs. at the
   first surface, then decreases along the geometric X axis and may be about 25 lbs. at the second
   surface, or the pore size of the foamed resin may be about 4 to about 8 ppi at the first surface,
   the decreases along the geometric X axis to be about 25 to about 35 ppi at the second surface.
10 Alternatively, the mat may include of two or more discrete layers of foamed resins, each of
   which exhibits a different magnitude of the selected mechanical characteristic. In such
   configuration, it is preferred that the layer or portion of the mat that forms the exteriormost (or
   the interiormost) region of the cylindrical format is the layer or portion having the greater ILD
   and/or density.
15 [0043]       The foamed resins may exhibit other mechanical or chemical properties. The
   nominal pore size of the foamed resin may vary; it may be dictated by the specific end
   application or desired use. In an embodiment, foamed resin has a nominal pore size of about 5
   pores per liner inch (ppi) to about 70 ppi, about 7 to about 35 ppi or about 10 to about 25 ppi.
   [00441       Nominal distribution of pores within foamed resin may also be varied. However, it
20 may be preferred that pore distribution is about 5 to about 70, alternatively, about 10 to about
   40.
   [0045]       The foamed resin of the mat may be prepared of a neat resin. Alternatively, it may
   be desirable to include various additives in the resin to improve or modify performance,
   durability, water sheddability, handling and other properties. For example, it may be desirable
25 to include clays, UV absorbers or protectants, antimycotic agents, antibacterial components (for
   example, if selective for specific types of undesirable bacteria), colorants, deodorizers,
   fragrances, crafted polyols and combinations thereof.
   [0046]       The invention also includes a device for the filtration of a liquid or gas material.
   The device may include one or more reactor modules. The reactor modules include a filtration
30 medium (as described herein). In an embodiment, the reactor module includes at least one
   chamber. It may be any configuration, such as square, polygonal or rectangle or circular in
   cross-section.
                                                      9

   [0047]        A given device of the invention may include one or more reactor modules that
   contain the filtration media discussed above and, optionally, a lid or cover. Within a device,
   each reactor module may be identical (that is same type and structure of foam and/or biomass).
   Alternatively, each reactor module may be targeted to remove or oxidize a particular
 5 contaminant and therefore necessarily contain a structurally different mat and/or contain a mat
   that has been inoculated with a specific type of microorganism that is know to reduce the
   targeted contaminant. The devices may also include other features that aid in the efficiency of
   the process, such as baffles to facilitate the even distribution of gas or liquid through the device;
   spray nozzles situated to permit moistening of the media and/or delivery of other substances to
10 the media; and/or collection or elimination systems.
   [00481         Referencing Figs. 1A, IB, 1C, 2 and 3, the invention also includes a device (23) for
   the filtration of a liquid and/or a gas material. The device (23) may include one or more reactor
   modules (13) and a lid (39). In an embodiment, the reactor module (13) includes the filtration
   medium (11), in any variation as described above, and a chamber (1). The chamber (1) may be
15 substantially cylindrical (i.e., of a substantially circular cross section when viewed in the Y-Z
   plane). The chamber includes one or more sides (7), a top (5) and a bottom (3). The chamber
   (1) includes a base (9) that extends radially from the interior side(s) (7) of the chamber (1)
   towards the center of the chamber (1). The base (9) may be made of any suitable material or
   combination of materials, including metal, metal that is coated or encased with high density
20  polyethylene, polypropylene or other polymer, polymer, fiberglass reinforced polymers (such as
    polyesters, nylons, isopolyesters, polyethylenes, isophthalic resins, orthothalic resins, vinyl
    esters, epoxies, phenolic resins, and polypropylenes) and/or textile and may be a size
    corresponding substantially to the diameter of the chamber (3) or it may be a fraction of the
    size, e.g., it may be "donut type" configuration, a base with cut outs, a series of prong or bars
25  and the like. The reactor chamber (3) and/or the lid (39) may also include one or more ports
    (15, 19, 21) for conveying the liquid or gas material in and out of the reactor module.
    Depending on the phase of the material to be filtered (gas or liquid) the ports will serve
    different purposes. If a gaseous material is filtered, the inlet port(s) may be located beneath the
    filtration medium at the base of the chamber and the outlet port(s) may be located above at least
30  a portion of the filtration medium in the upper portion(s) of the chamber or the lid. The
    converse arrangement may be utilized if a liquid material, such as wastewater, is filtered.
                                                       10

   [00491       In some embodiments, the modules may contain one or more mediums (for
   example, layer within a chamber). Such media may be the same or may be different. For
   example, at least one medium may be a medium of the invention and the other(s) may be of
   another type of medium, such as, for example, charcoal, carbon, wood chips, compost,
 5 fiberglass, paper, silica, and/or clay. Similarly, the device may include one or more modules,
   each modules having a different medium or set of media.
   [0050]       In an embodiment, the base (9) is in the form of a grate, support beams, posts, wire
   shelf or combinations of these. The selected filtration medium (11) is disposed within the
   chamber (3) such that the winding axis (29) of the mat (35) is substantially parallel to the sides
10 of the chamber (3) and the filtration medium rests within the chamber (3) on the base (9).
   Optionally, a spacer may be placed between the base (9) and the filtration medium (11), and/or
   between any adjacently stacked mediums. Such spacer may be adapted to promote even
   distribution of the material undergoing filtration through the medium and/or to create
   turbulence in the material.
15 [0051]       Also included within the scope of the invention are methods of filtering a gas or
   liquid material. Such methods include applying a gas or liquid material to the filtration medium
   described above, preferably when such medium is disposed within the device described above.
   [0052]       For example, if material to be filtered is a gas, foul air enters the bottom of the
   chamber (1) through port (15) after which it is equalized in the bottom portion of chamber (1)
20 before it flows at substantially equal upflow velocity through the cross section of the filtration
   medium (11). While the air flows through the filtration medium (11), the odorous and other
   compounds in the air are transferred to the microorganisms that oxidize the compounds to non
   odorous compounds. The filtration media may be separated to include an equalization layer
   between the filtration media. While the air is flowing through the filtration medium (11),
25 potable or substantially clean wastewater effluent is sprayed on top of the filtration medium
   (11) at uniform flow distribution. The water is used to remove the microbial products of
   oxidation, dead microorganisms, enhance mass transfer of compounds from air to water and
   microorganisms, and keep the microorganisms moist to allow for optimum growth. The water
   flow may be intermittent or continuous. The chamber (1) is fitted with a roof (39) and the
30 filtered air exits the roof (39) through port (21).
   [0053]       Referencing Figure 6, an embodiment is shown having at least two mats arranged in
   a vertical stack (41) and disposed within a rectangular chamber (43) having four walls (45, 47,
                                                      .i1

   47', 49) and a base (not visible). In some embodiments, the chamber (43) may include multiple
   vertical stacks (41) that are separated by a spacer between them. Figure 6 shows an
   embodiment wherein the base has a structure that supports the vertical stack (41) but permits
   the filtrate (gas) to pass through. For example, the base may be a grid structure. The module of
 5 Figure 6 includes a gas inlet (53) through which gas is passed into a plenum chamber (55), after
   which it passed through the vertical stack. In the specific device of Figure 6, the gas
   subsequently passes through an additional reactor module (57) that contains a filtration medium
   consisting of common activated charcoal, carbon, activated alumina, wood chips, compost or
   combination thereof.
10 [0054]        The individual mats in the vertical stack of Figure 6 each bear a peak-and-valley
   convolution having a peak-to-valley dimension of about 0.25 inches to about 0.75 inches. The
   side walls 47 and 47' of the chamber apply a compressive force of about 3 lb/ft to about 5 lb/ft
   on the vertical stack.
   [0055]        Referencing Figures 7 (7A and 7B) and 6, data is provided showing the efficiency
15 and dpr removal capabilities of the invention. In Figure 7A and B, the data shown is a result of
   air that was blown through the reactor at 675 cfm (cubic feet per minute), which resulted in an
   empty bed residence time of 7 s. The hydrogen sulfide (H2 S) concentration of the air entering
   the reactor device and that of the air exiting the reactor through the exhaust stack are measured
   with OdaLogs every 10 s. Figure 7A and B shows the inlet and outlet H2 S concentration vs.
20 time, as well as the removal efficiency vs. time for the same data at 7s empty bed residence
   time.
   100561        It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the
   embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is
   understood, therefore, that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed,
25 but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention as
   defined by the appended claims.
                                                       12

                                                    13
CLAIMS
1.    A filtration medium comprising at least one mat having a first surface and a second
surface, wherein at least one of the first surface or the second surface is substantially non-planar
and has a substantially non-uniform convolution profile.
2.     The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the mat comprises a foamed resin that has a
density of about 1 lbs/ft3 (16 kg/m 3) to 3 lbs/ft3 (48 kg/m 3 ) and/or an indentation load deflection
of about 35 lbs (15.9 kg) to 150 lbs (68 kg).
3.     The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the medium comprises a mat that is configured
into cylindrical format by rolling the mat around a winding axis such that the first surface is in
contact with the second surface.
4.     The filtration medium of claim 3, wherein the mat is configured into a cylindrical format
such that the at least one non-planar surface is present at the exterior of the cylindrical format.
5.     The filtration medium of claim 3, wherein the contact between the first surface and the
second surface is substantially continuous.
6.     The filtration medium of claim 1, comprising two or more mats that are configured into a
vertical stack.
7.     The filtration medium of claim 6, wherein each mat has a planar first surface and the first
surface of a mat is in contact with the second surface of a second mat in the vertical stack.
8.     The filtration medium of claim 7, wherein the surfaces of the two or more mats are
maintained in contact by a horizontal compressive force.
9.     The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the convolution profile is chosen from an egg
crate profile, a zig-zag profile, a rectangular profile, a projecting villi profile, a compound
projecting villi profile, and a V -shaped profile.
10.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the convolution profile is a sine profile.

                                                  14
11.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the at least non-planar surface comprises a
profile that has a peak-to-valley dimension of about 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) to 0.75 inches (1.9 cm).
12.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the density of the foamed resin is about 1.2
lbs/ft (19.2 kg/m3 ) to 2.5 lbs/ft3 (40 kg/m 3).
13.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the density of the foamed resin is about 1.8
lbs/ft3 (28.8 kg/m 3).
14.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the indentation load deflection of the foamed
resin is about 35 lbs (15.9 kg) to 150 lbs (68 kg).
15.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the foamed resin comprises a material chosen
from polyurethane, nylon, polystyrene, polypropylene, polyethylene and copolymers thereof.
16.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the foamed resin is chosen from a hydrophobic
material and a hydrophilic material.
17.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the foamed resin has a nominal pore size of
about 5 ppi (2 ppcm) to 70 ppi (27.5 ppcm).
18.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the foamed resin has a nominal pore size of
about 15 ppi (6 ppcm) to 20 ppi (7.9 ppcm).
19.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the mat comprises at least a first layer and a
second layer, and the first layer comprises a foamed resin having a first density and the second
layer comprises a foamed resin having a second density, wherein the first density is greater than
the second density.
20.    The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the mat comprises at least a first layer and a
second layer, and the first layer comprises a foamed resin having a first indentation load
deflection and the second layer comprises a foamed resin having a second indentation load
deflection, wherein the first indentation load deflection is greater than the second indentation
load deflection.

                                                    15
21.     The filtration medium of claim 1, wherein the mat comprises at least a first layer and a
second layer, and the first layer comprises a foamed resin having a first pore size and the second
layer comprises a foamed resin having a second pore size, wherein the first pore size is greater
than the second pore size.
22.     A filtration medium comprising at least one mat having a first surface and a second
surface, wherein at least one of the first surface or the second surface is substantially non-planar,
and the mat comprises a foamed resin that has a density of about 1 lbs/ft3 (16 kg/m 3) to 3 lbs/ft3
(48 kg/m 3) and an indentation load deflection of about 35 lbs (15.9 kg) to 150 lbs (68 kg).
23.     A module for the filtration of a liquid and/or a gas comprising a reactor module that
comprises:
        a) the filtration medium comprising at least one mat having a first surface and a second
surface, wherein at least one of the first surface or the second surface is substantially non-planar
and has a substantially non uniform convolution profile, and the mat comprises a foamed resin
that has a density of about 1 lbs/ft3 (16 kg/m 3) to 3 lbs/ft3 (48 kg/m 3) and/or an indentation load
deflection of about 35 lbs (15.9 kg) to 150 lbs (68 kg); and
        b) a chamber having sides and a base, wherein the base comprising a support that extends
from the sides of the chamber towards the interior of the chamber, wherein the filtration medium
is disposed within the chamber.
24.     The module of claim 23, wherein the chamber is a substantially cylindrical chamber; the
filtration medium is a mat that is configured into cylindrical format by rolling the mat around a
winding axis such that the first surface is in contact with the second surface; and the filtration
medium is disposed within the chamber such that the hypothetical winding axis of the mat is
substantially parallel to the sides of the chamber.
25.     The module of claim 23, wherein the chamber is a substantially rectangular chamber, the
filtration medium comprises two or more mats that are configured into a stack and the stack is
disposed vertically into the chamber under a horizontal compression force.
26.     The module of claim 24, further comprising an inlet for conveying the liquid or gas
material into the chamber and an outlet for conveying a filtrate out of the chamber.
27.     A filtration device that comprises at least one module of claim 23.

                                                   16
28.    The filtration device of claim 27, further comprising at least one additional medium that
differs from the first medium.
29.    The filtration device of claim 28, wherein the at least one additional medium comprises a
material chosen from charcoal, carbon, wood chips, compost, fiberglass, paper, silica and clay.
30.    The device of claim 27, wherein the reactor module further comprises a lid that extends
over at least a portion of the top of the chamber of at least one module.
31.    A filtration device that comprises at least one module of claim 23 and at least one module
containing an additional medium, wherein the. modules are situated adjacently.
32.    The filtration device of claim 28, wherein the at least one additional medium comprises a
material chosen from charcoal, carbon, wood chips, compost, fiberglass, paper, silica and clay.
33.    A method of filtering a gas or liquid material, the method comprising applying a gas or
liquid material to the filtration medium of claim 1.
34.    A method of fabricating a module for use in the filtration of a liquid or a gas comprising
winding a mat around a hypothetical winding axis at a winding tension of about 1 lbs per foam
width (foot) (47 Pa) to 40 lbs per foam width (foot) (1915 Pa) to form a medium in a cylindrical
format, and placing the medium in a chamber, wherein the mat comprises a first surface and a
second surface, wherein at least one of the first surface or the second surface is substantially non
planar and has a substantially non-uniform convolution profile.
35.    The method of claim 34, wherein the winding tension applied is about 1 lbs per foam width
(foot) (47 Pa) to 40 lbs per foam width (foot) (1915 Pa).
                                        BioAir Solutions, LLC
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
