                                         Abstract
                 The invention provides methods and compositions for improving
  dewatering of mineral slurry. The method comprises adding an R-Succinic
5 Compound (such as octadecenyl succinic acid, hexadecenyl succinic acid, and/or
  dodecenyl succinic acid) to the slurry. The R-Succinic Compound removes water
  that would otherwise be trapped within the filtered slurry cake.

WO 2015/130511                                                           PCT/US2015/016146
        ALTERNATIVE ADDITIVES TO ENHANCE SLURRY DEWATERING
    Background of the Invention
                     The invention relates to compositions, methods, and apparatuses for
 5  improving the dewatering of mineral slurries. Mining operations typically involve
     grinding and slurrying of mineral ores with water or leach solution (chemical in
    water) that then undergoes a series of processes to obtain the mineral in a purer
    form. An important, often final, step in minerals processing is the removal of water
    from the process slurry, yielding a final cake (either minerals or tailings) in a solid,
10   'dry' form. Dewatering processes such as filtration, with addition of a dewatering
     aid, are often utilized to remove the water from the mineral slurry. A dewatering aid
    is, typically, a chemical additive that is added to the mineral slurry just prior to
    filtration (or in some cases to wash water that is added on top of the filtered mineral
     slurry cake) which aims to help reduce the final moisture content of the filtered
15   solids. The reduction in moisture content of the mineral solid can lead to higher
    mineral product quality, higher filtration and mineral transportation throughput and
     greater recovery of leach solution or water. Thus there is clear need and utility for a
    method of improving the range and performance of dewatering aids that can be used
    in mineral processing applications.
20                   The art described in this section is not intended to constitute an
     admission that any patent, publication or other information referred to herein is
     "prior art" with respect to this invention, unless specifically designated as such. In
     addition, this section should not be construed to mean that a search has been made or
    that no other pertinent information as defined in 37 CFR § 1.56(a) exists.
25
                                                  1

WO 2015/130511                                                          PCT/US2015/016146
    Brief Summary of the Invention
                     To satisfy the long-felt but unsolved needs identified above, at least
     one embodiment of the invention is directed towards a method of enhancing the
    dewatering of minerals. The method comprises the step of adding to the slurry or to
 5  wash water added to the slurry; at least one R-succinic compound.
                     The R-succinic compound may be one item selected from the list
    consisting of: octadecenyl succinic acid, hexadecenyl succinic acid, dodecenyl
     succinic acid, and any combination thereof. The composition may further comprise
     a base. The composition may be more effective as a dewatering agent than a similar
10  composition comprising a similar or greater molar amount of dioctylsulfosuccinate,
    fatty acid, or any combination thereof than the molar amount of R-succinic
    compound in the composition.       The composition may be added to mineral slurry
    upstream from a filtration stage of a mineral processing operation. The composition
    may be added to wash fluid added to the slurry or used within the filtration process.
15  The R-succinic compound may form in situ within the slurry or wash fluid. The R
     succinic compound may form from an anhydride added to the slurry or wash fluid.
                     Additional features and advantages are described herein, and will be
     apparent from, the following Detailed Description.
20  Brief Description of the Drawings
                     A detailed description of the invention is hereafter described with
     specific reference being made to the drawings in which:
                                                  2

WO 2015/130511                                                           PCT/US2015/016146
                     FIG. 1 is an illustration of the application of the invention in the
    Filtration Stage of a Mineral Processing Process which shows options for addition of
    the Dewatering Aid (DWA).
                     FIG. 2 is an illustration of the synthesis of a specific "R-Succinic
 5  Compound" where R = C12 alkenyl.
                     FIG. 3 is an illustration of the synthesis of various forms of a specific
     "R-Succinic Compound" where R = C12 alkenyl.
                     For the purposes of this disclosure, like reference numerals in the
    figures shall refer to like features unless otherwise indicated. The drawings are only
10   an exemplification of the principles of the invention and are not intended to limit the
    invention to the particular embodiments illustrated.
    Detailed Description of the Invention
    DEFINITIONS
15                   The following definitions are provided to determine how terms used
    in this application, and in particular how the claims, are to be construed. The
     organization of the definitions is for convenience only and is not intended to limit
     any of the definitions to any particular category.
                     "R-Succinic Compound" means any one or more molecule(s)
20   (including but not limited to octadecenyl succinic acid, hexadecenyl succinic acid,
     and/or dodecenyl succinic acid), whose structure conforms to the generalized
     structure of: Formula 1, Formula 2, conjugate acid-bases thereof, and any
    combination thereof, wherein Formula land Formula 2 are:
                                                  3

WO 2015/130511                                                       PCT/US2015/016146
                      R
                                        R
                          OH 'HO
                          Formula 1                             Formula 2
    where R and R' are independent, distinct, and represent alkyl, alkenyl, or aromatic
    hydrocarbon groups containing 1-30 carbon atoms
 5                 "Octadecenyl Succinic Acid" means a molecule and acid-base
    conjugates thereof having a general structure of:
                                    O
                                        OH
                                           HO       O
                   "Hexadecenyl Succinic Acid" means a molecule and acid-base
    conjugates thereof having a general structure of:
                                        O
                                            OH
10                                             HO      O
                   "Dodecenyl Succinic Acid" means a molecule and acid-base
    conjugates thereof having a general structure of:
                                              4

WO 2015/130511                                                           PCT/US2015/016146
                                                                          O;
                       "Consisting Essentially of' means that the methods and compositions
    may include additional steps, components, ingredients or the like, but only if the
     additional steps, components and/or ingredients do not materially alter the basic and
 5  novel characteristics of the claimed methods and compositions.
                       "Dewatering" means removing water absorbed by or borne by a
    water bearing mineral pulp, sludge, or mineral slurry undergoing a mineral
    processing application, dewatering may be performed for a number of reasons
    including but not limited to enabling ore handling, easing transport, facilitating
10  further processing, and/or disposing of gangue, dewatering is accomplished at least
    in part by items which include but are not limited to one or more of: dewatering
     screens, vacuuming, suction, sedimentation, filtering, and thermal drying, and any of
    the methods/apparatuses described in The Nalco Water Handbook (3rd Edition), by
    Daniel Flynn, McGraw Hill (2009) in general and in particular pp. 26.1-26.20.
15                     "Filter"means a structure constructed and arranged to remove
     suspended materials from within a liquid that is passed through it, more detailed
    descriptions of filters and filtration are described in The Nalco Water Handbook (3rd
    Edition), by Daniel Flynn, McGraw Hill (2009) in general and in particular pp. 6.1
     8.30.
20                     "FilterCake" means the accumulation of solid matter that is retained
     on a filter, it increases in the course of filtration and becomes thicker as more
                                                    5

WO 2015/130511                                                            PCT/US2015/016146
    particulate matter is retained, with increasing layer thickness the flow resistance of
    the filter cake increases, and if not removed soon enough, eventually thick filter
    cake can disrupt filtration because the flow resistance of the filter cake gets so high
    that too little of the liquid from the slurry being filtered can pass through the filter
 5  cake and the filter plugs.
                      "MineralProcessing Application" means a process whose step(s)
    includes the separation of one or more commercially valuable minerals from a rock,
     ore or an ore derivative, it includes but is not limited to operations used to process
    materials who have as a constituent: metallic minerals, non-metallic minerals, zinc,
10  tin, aluminum, feldspar, coal, iron, copper, gold, silver, rare earth metals, diamonds,
     sulfur, noble metals, ferrous minerals, cobalt, nickel, metal sulfides, metal oxides,
    lithium, lead, molybdenum, cadmium, cobalt, sulfides, oxides, pyrites, hydrates,
    chromium, manganese, lime, calcium, carbonates, solids, silicates, tectosilicates,
    phyllosilicates, inosilicates, cyclosilicates, sorosilicates, orthosilicates, nesosilicates,
15  non-silicates, nitrates, native element minerals, sulfides, oxides, halides, sulfates,
     gypsums, calcites, phosphates, organic minerals, and any combination thereof and/or
     of additional representative minerals and/or processes described in the "extended
     sense" of Wills' Mineral Processing Technology: An Introduction to the Practical
    Aspects of Ore Treatment and Mineral Recovery, (7th Edition), by B.A. Wills,
20  Elsevier Ltd, (2006).
                      "Membrane" means a structure having lateral dimensions much
     greater than its thickness through which a mass transfer may occur, membranes may
    be used to filter liquids.
                                                  6

WO 2015/130511                                                          PCT/US2015/016146
                     "Separation" and "Separation Method" means a mass transfer
    process that converts a mixture of substances into two or more distinct product
    mixtures, at least one of which is enriched in one or more of the mixture's
    constituents, it includes but is not limited to such processes as: Adsorption,
 5  Centrifugation, cyclonic separation, density based separation, Chromatography,
    Crystallization, Decantation, Distillation, Drying, Electrophoresis, Elutriation,
    Evaporation, Extraction, Leaching extraction, Liquid-liquid extraction, Solid phase
    extraction, Flotation, Dissolved air flotation, Froth flotation, Flocculation, Filtration,
    Mesh filtration, membrane filtration, microfiltration, ultrafiltration, nanofiltration,
10  reverse osmosis, Fractional distillation, Fractional freezing, Magnetic separation,
    Precipitation, Recrystallization, Sedimentation, Gravity separation, Sieving,
     Stripping, Sublimation, Vapor-liquid separation, Winnowing, Zone refining, and any
    combination thereof.
                     "Slurry" means a mixture comprising a liquid medium within which
15  finely divided solids are dispersed or suspended, the liquid medium may be entirely
    water, partially water, or may not contain any water at all.
                     "Surfactant"is a broad term which includes anionic, nonionic,
    cationic, and zwitterionic surfactants.    Enabling descriptions of surfactants are
     stated in Kirk-Othmer, Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, Third Edition,
20  volume 8, pages 900-912, and in McCutcheon's Emulsifiers and Detergents, both of
    which are incorporated herein by reference.
                     "Thickener" or "Settler" means a vessel used to effect a solid-liquid
     separation of a slurry, often with the addition of flocculants, the vessel constructed
     and arranged to receive a slurry, retain the slurry for a period of time sufficient to
                                                 7

WO 2015/130511                                                          PCT/US2015/016146
     allow solid portions of the slurry to settle downward (underflow) away from a more
    liquid portion of the slurry (overflow), decant the overflow, and remove the
    underflow. Thickener underflow and thickener overflow are often passed on to
    filters to further separate solids from liquids.
 5                   "Water Soluble" means materials that are soluble in water to at least
     3%, by weight, at 25 degrees C.
                     In the event that the above definitions or a description stated
    elsewhere in this application is inconsistent with a meaning (explicit or implicit)
    which is commonly used, in a dictionary, or stated in a source incorporated by
10  reference into this application, the application and the claim terms in particular are
    understood to be construed according to the definition or description in this
     application, and not according to the common definition, dictionary definition, or the
    definition that was incorporated by reference. In light of the above, in the event that
     a term can only be understood if it is construed by a dictionary, if the term is defined
15  by the Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, 5th Edition, (2005),
     (Published by Wiley, John & Sons, Inc.) this definition shall control how the term is
    to be defined in the claims. All illustrated chemical structures also include all
    possible stereoisomer alternatives.
20  EMBODIMENTS
                     At least one embodiment of the invention is directed towards the
     addition of a dewatering composition to a dewatering stage of a mineral processing
     application. The composition comprises at least one R-succinic compound. The R
     succinic compound may be one item selected from: octadecenyl succinic acid,
                                                  8

WO 2015/130511                                                         PCT/US2015/016146
    hexadecenyl succinic acid, dodecenyl succinic acid, and any combination thereof.
     Some representative examples of mineral processing applications and details thereof
     are described in the references: Dictionary of Mining, Mineral, and Related Terms,
    American Geological Institute, 2nd edition (June 1997), SME Mining Reference
 5  Handbook, by Raymond L. Lowrie, Society for Mining Metallurgy and Exploration,
     (2002), Introductory Mining Engineering, by Howard L. Hartman, John Wiley &
     Sons, (2002), and Evaluating Mineral Projects: Applications and Misconceptions, by
     Thomas F. Torries, Society for Mining Metallurgy and Exploration, (1998). The
    dewatering stage can occur before, during, and or after any one, some, or all of the
10  various processing stages described therein.
                    As illustrated in FIG. 1, in at least one embodiment wash fluid is
     added to the slurry before, during, and/or after the separation. The wash fluid may
    comprise water and/or may consist essentially of water. The composition may be
     added to the wash fluid, may be added to the slurry alongside wash fluid, may be
15   added to the slurry before the wash fluid, may be added to the slurry after the wash
    fluid, and any combination thereof.
                    The effectiveness of this composition is quite unexpected. As
    described in such references as US Patents 5,011,612, 5,454,329, and 5,167,831, US
    Published Patent Application 2012/0288438 Al, and European Patent Documents
20  EP0417360B1, EP0672620B1, EP1406711B1, EP0460811A1, EP0286034A1, fatty
     acids such as oleic acid and alkylsulfosuccinate compounds such as
    dioctylsulfosuccinate are known to be effective dewatering agents. The
    effectiveness of this composition however is in contrast to previous expectations. In
    prior art compositions it was assumed that a strong carboxylic acid was needed to
                                                  9

WO 2015/130511                                                          PCT/US2015/016146
     grasp the water molecules and the fatty region was to address steric and lipophilic
     obstacles the acid faced. In contrast the structure of the open ring, and in particular
    the presence of two reflection carboxyl groups results in an acid that has an overall
    pKa which is lower than those of the prior art yet which is more effective than the
 5  prior art. In addition because of its lower pKa, R-succinic compounds have fewer
    unwanted downstream reactions than prior art fatty acid dewatering agents. In at
    least one embodiment the composition comprises an R-succinic compound with a
    lower pKa than dioctylsulfosuccinate and/or oleic acid yet is more effective as a
    dewatering agent.
10                  Without being limited by a particular theory or design of the
    invention or of the scope afforded in construing the claims, it is believed that the
    unique structure of the R-succinic compound is what causes exceptionally effective
    dewatering effects. The R-succinic compound comprises an open ring which
    contains carbonyl and hydroxide groups whose unique charge distribution may be
15   able to "grasp" and "attach" more effectively to the mineral surface and thereby act
    to replace water molecules that would otherwise remain hydrogen bonded to the
     surface. The ring structure and "two-headed" nature of the acid site therefore works
    better than would be expected by the lower pKa.
                    In at least one embodiment the composition also comprises a ring
20   opening agent. Under certain chemical conditions the open ring of the R-succinic
    compound could close by the formation of an anhydride bond between the
    hydroxide groups. The ring opening agent acts to prevent such ring closings. In at
    least one embodiment the ring opening agent is a base. The base may be selected
    from the list consisting of; potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, sodium
                                                10

WO 2015/130511                                                         PCT/US2015/016146
    bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, ammonia, ammonium hydroxide, organic bases
     (including but not limited to triethylamine), and any combination thereof. The ring
     opening agent may be a catalyst and/or may be a reactive composition. In at least
     one embodiment the composition comprises an R-succinic compound in equilibrium
 5  between being open ringed and close ringed and the ring opening agent favorably
     shifts the equilibrium to favor the open ringed configuration. In at least one
    embodiment if in excess the ring opening agent would hydrolyze at least part of the
    ring and the dosage of the agent is sufficient to favorably shift the equilibrium to
    favor the open ringed configuration but not substantially hydrolyze any part of the
10  ring.
                     In at least one embodiment the R-succinic compound is formed by
     opening the ring of an R-succinic anhydride compound. For example as illustrated
    in FIG. 2 dodecenyl succinic anhydride (which is representative of any C1-C100
     succinic anhydride) can be used to make the R-succinic compound. The R-succinic
15  compound may be formed as a result of a base driven reaction.
                     In at least one embodiment the R-succinic compound is stored in an
     anhydride form and its ring is opened immediately prior to or simultaneous to its
    introduction into the slurry or into the wash fluid.
                     In at least one embodiment the composition reduces the amount of
20  wash fluid required to remove the same amount of water from the slurry.
                     In at least one embodiment the composition reduces the amount of
    energy required to further dry the solids.
                                                11

WO 2015/130511                                                          PCT/US2015/016146
                     In at least one embodiment a lower dosage of the composition (and/or
     of the R-succinic compound) is required to remove the same amount of water from
    the slurry relative to use of a prior art dewatering agent.
                     In at least one embodiment the composition reduces the amount of
 5  water remaining with the filter cake resulting from a separation method that the
     slurry goes through.
                     In at least one embodiment the acid salt of the R-succinic compound
    may also be produced by base addition to the acid or to the anhydride. The counter
    ion of acid salt formed will depend on the base used. As illustrated in FIG. 3, the
10  use of sodium hydroxide results in the Na+ salt, but salts of potassium, lithium,
     ammonium, or any other respective ion may also form.
                     In at least one embodiment the R-succinic compound is in the form
     of: an anhydride form, an acid form, an acid salt form, and any combination thereof.
                     In at least one embodiment the mineral processing application
15  excludes a method that includes processing aluminum. In at least one embodiment
    the mineral processing application excludes some or all of the steps of the Bayer
    Process.
    EXAMPLES
20                   The foregoing may be better understood by reference to the following
    examples, which are presented for purposes of illustration and are not intended to
    limit the scope of the invention. In particular the examples demonstrate
    representative examples of principles innate to the invention and these principles are
    not strictly limited to the specific condition recited in these examples. As a result it
                                                 12

WO 2015/130511                                                           PCT/US2015/016146
     should be understood that the invention encompasses various changes and
    modifications to the examples described herein and such changes and modifications
    can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and
    without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such
 5  changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.
                     A number of formulations were prepared to simulate the dewatering
    effectiveness of the inventive composition. Table 1 summarizes the formulations.
     Table 1
     Formulation                 Active               Active      Water/KO        Other
                                                         %             H       Component
                                                                       %          s%
           A          Hexadecenyl succinic               20           67           13
                      acid
           B          Hexadecenyl succinic                5           95            0
                      acid
           C          Commercially available             99            0            1
                      mixture of hexadecenyl
                      succinic anhydride and
                      octadecenyl succinic
                      anhydride
           D          Commercially available             25            0           75
                      fatty acid based product
10                   The test procedure that the samples underwent was as follows:
    Lithium Mineral Slurry
                     Filter feed slurry from an operating lithium mineral processing plant
    was obtained and used in the test. In preparation for the test this slurry was first
    filtered. The filtrate was collected and the filter cake air-dried at room temperature.
15  Filtrate (25 g) and process filter cake (25 g) was added to 100 mL polycarbonate
    bottles to prepare the slurry at a known concentration. Dewatering aid test solutions
    were prepared at 1 and 2% concentration in deionized water. Formulation C was
     applied in neat form, undiluted.
                                                 13

WO 2015/130511                                                            PCT/US2015/016146
                     A known volume of dewatering aid test solution was added to a
     sample of lithium slurry and thoroughly mixed. The slurry was then poured into a
    Buchner funnel (70 mm diam., Whatman coarse filter paper) and allowed to settle
    for 20 sec then a vacuum was applied for 20 sec. The cake was then sampled and the
 5  moisture content was determined gravimetrically by drying in an oven at 1 10 C.
    Magnetite Product Slurry
                     Filter feed slurry from an operating magnetite mineral processing
    plant was obtained and used in the test. In preparation for the test this slurry was
    first filtered. The filtrate was collected and the filter cake air-dried at room
10  temperature. Filtrate (17 g) and magnetite filter cake (33 g) was added to 100 mL
    polycarbonate bottles to prepare the slurry at a known concentration. Dewatering
     aid test solutions were prepared at 1 and 2% concentration in deionized water.
                     A known volume of dewatering aid test solution was added to a
     sample of magnetite slurry and thoroughly mixed. The slurry was then poured into a
15  Buchner funnel (70 mm diam., Whatman coarse filter paper) and allowed to settle
    for 20 sec then a vacuum was applied for 20 sec. The cake was then sampled and the
    moisture content was determined gravimetrically by drying in an oven at 1 10 C.
    Copper Product Slurry
                     Filter feed slurry from an operating copper mineral processing plant
20  was obtained and used in the test. In preparation for the test this slurry was first
    filtered. The filtrate was collected and the filter cake air-dried at room temperature.
    Filtrate (15 g) and copper filter cake (35 g) was added to 100 mL polycarbonate
    bottles to prepare the slurry at a known concentration.
                                                 14

WO 2015/130511                                                         PCT/US2015/016146
                      A known volume of dewatering was added in neat form to a sample
     of copper slurry and thoroughly mixed. The slurry was then poured into a Buchner
    funnel (70 mm diam., Whatman coarse filter paper) and allowed to settle for 20 sec
    then a vacuum was applied for 70 sec. The cake was then sampled and the moisture
 5  content was determined gravimetrically by drying in an oven at 1 10 C.
                      The results of the tests were as follows:
    Dewatering Aid Tests
     Table 2: Effect of formulations on dewatering of lithium product slurry
            Treatment                    Actives Dose            % Reduction in Cake
                                       (g/T of lithium)                 Moisture
                                               48                           4.8
                 A                             80                          16.0
                                               160                         43.1
                 C                            200                          25.5
                 D                            200                          12.5
10
     Table 3: Effect of HDSA formulations on dewatering of magnetite product slurry
            Treatment                    Actives Dose            % Reduction in Cake
                                      (g/T of magnetite)                Moisture
                 A                             120                         7.6
                 B                            300                          11.5
15
     Table 4: Effect of alkenyl succinic anhydrides on dewatering of copper product
     slurry
            Treatment                    Actives Dose            % Reduction in Cake
                                        (g/T of copper)                 Moisture
                                               100                         12.8
                                              200                          14.5
20
    In all tests, there was considerable moisture reduction in the filter cakes that were
    treated with the alkenyl succinic acid or anhydride.
                                                   15

WO 2015/130511                                                            PCT/US2015/016146
                       While this invention may be embodied in many different forms, there
     are described in detail herein specific preferred embodiments of the invention. The
    present disclosure is an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not
    intended to limit the invention to the particular embodiments illustrated. All patents,
 5  patent applications, scientific papers, and any other referenced materials mentioned
    herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Furthermore, the invention
    encompasses any possible combination of some or all of the various embodiments
    mentioned herein, described herein and/or incorporated herein. In addition the
    invention encompasses any possible combination that also specifically excludes any
10   one or some of the various embodiments mentioned herein, described herein and/or
    incorporated herein.
                       The above disclosure is intended to be illustrative and not exhaustive.
    This description will suggest many variations and alternatives to one of ordinary
     skill in this art. All these alternatives and variations are intended to be included
15  within the scope of the claims where the term "comprising" means "including, but
    not limited to". Those familiar with the art may recognize other equivalents to the
     specific embodiments described herein which equivalents are also intended to be
    encompassed by the claims.
                       All ranges and parameters disclosed herein are understood to
20  encompass any and all subranges subsumed therein, and every number between the
    endpoints. For example, a stated range of "1 to 10" should be considered to include
     any and all subranges between (and inclusive of) the minimum value of 1 and the
    maximum value of 10; that is, all subranges beginning with a minimum value of 1 or
    more, (e.g. I to 6.1), and ending with a maximum value of 10 or less, (e.g. 2.3 to
                                                  16

WO 2015/130511                                                             PCT/US2015/016146
     9.4, 3 to 8, 4 to 7), and finally to each number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10
    contained within the range. All percentages, ratios and proportions herein are by
    weight unless otherwise specified.
                      This completes the description of the preferred and alternate
 5  embodiments of the invention. Those skilled in the art may recognize other
    equivalents to the specific embodiment described herein which equivalents are
    intended to be encompassed by the claims attached hereto.
                                                 17

WO 2015/130511                                                          PCT/US2015/016146
     Claims
     1.      A method of enhancing the dewatering of mineral bearing slurry in a
    dewatering step of a mineral processing application, the method comprising the step
     of adding to the slurry or to wash water added to the slurry; at least one R-succinic
 5  compound.
    2.       The method of claim 1 in which the R-succinic compound is one item
     selected from the list consisting of: octadecenyl succinic acid, hexadecenyl succinic
     acid, dodecenyl succinic acid, and any combination thereof.
    3.       The method of claim 1 which the composition further comprises a base.
10  4.       The method of claim 1 in which the composition is more effective as a
    dewatering agent than a similar composition comprising a molar amount of
    dioctylsulfosuccinate, fatty acid, or any combination thereof than the molar amount
     of R-succinic compound in the composition.
    5.       The method of claim 1 in which the composition is added to wash fluid
15   added to the slurry or used within a filtration process.
    6.       The method of claim 1 in which the R-succinic compound forms in situ
    within the slurry or wash fluid.
    7.       The method of claim 1 in which the R-succinic compound is in one form
     selected from the group consisting of: an anhydride form, an acid form, a salt form,
20   and any combination thereof.
    8.       The method of claim 1 in which the mineral bearing slurry contains one
    mineral selected from the group consisting of: metals, non-metals, zinc, tin,
                                                 18

WO 2015/130511                                                           PCT/US2015/016146
     aluminum, coal, iron, copper, gold, silver, rare earth metals, diamonds, sulfur, lead
    noble metals, ferrous minerals, cobalt, nickel, lithium, metal sulfides, metal oxides,
    lead, molybdenum, cadmium, cobalt, sulfides, oxides, pyrites, hydrates, chromium,
    manganese, lime, calcium, carbonates, solids, and any combination thereof.
 5   9.      The method of claim 1 in which the dewatering step includes one item
     selected from the group consisting of: dewatering screens, sedimentation, filtering,
    thermal drying, suction drying, vacuum drying, and any combination thereof.
     10.     The method of claim 1 in which the dewatering step is upstream from one
     stage of the mineral processing application selected from the group consisting of:
10  Adsorption, Centrifugation, cyclonic separation, density based separation,
    Chromatography, Crystallization, Decantation, Distillation, Drying, Electrophoresis,
    Elutriation, Evaporation, Extraction, Leaching extraction, Liquid-liquid extraction,
     Solid phase extraction, Flotation, Dissolved air flotation, Froth flotation,
    Flocculation, Filtration, Mesh filtration, membrane filtration, microfiltration,
15  ultrafiltration, nanofiltration, reverse osmosis, Fractional distillation, Fractional
    freezing, Magnetic separation, Precipitation, Recrystallization, Sedimentation,
    Gravity separation, Sieving, Stripping, Sublimation, Vapor-liquid separation,
    Winnowing, Zone refining, and any combination thereof.
     11.     The method of claim 1 in which the dewatering step is downstream from one
20   stage of the mineral processing application selected from the group consisting of:
    Adsorption, Centrifugation, cyclonic separation, density based separation,
    Chromatography, Crystallization, Decantation, Distillation, Drying, Electrophoresis,
    Elutriation, Evaporation, Extraction, Leaching extraction, Liquid-liquid extraction,
                                                19

WO 2015/130511                                                           PCT/US2015/016146
     Solid phase extraction, Flotation, Dissolved air flotation, Froth flotation,
    Flocculation, Filtration, Mesh filtration, membrane filtration, microfiltration,
    ultrafiltration, nanofiltration, reverse osmosis, Fractional distillation, Fractional
    freezing, Magnetic separation, Precipitation, Recrystallization, Sedimentation,
 5  Gravity separation, Sieving, Stripping, Sublimation, Vapor-liquid separation,
    Winnowing, Zone refining, and any combination thereof.
     12.     A method of enhancing the dewatering of alumina trihydrate bearing slurry,
    the method comprising the step of adding to the slurry or to wash water added to the
     slurry; at least one R-succinic compound.
10   13.     The method of claim 12 in which the composition is added to slurry taken
    from the classification stage of a Bayer Process.
     14.     The method of claim 12 in which the composition is added to slurry
    upstream from a calcination stage of a Bayer Process.
15
                                                20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
