                                  ABSTRACT
A baking device (10) is provided. The baking device (10) includes a housing
(20) enclosing a baking compartment (12) and an air handling compartment
(14), the air handling compartment (14) and the baking compartment (12) being
separated by a pressure panel (30) that may define a rear wall of the baking
compartment (12), the pressure panel (30) including an aperture allowing fluid
communication between the baking and air handling compartments. A blower
wheel (40) is mounted adjacent the aperture, such that rotation of the blower
wheel urges air movement from the baking compartment (12) and into the air
handling compartment (14). A secondary blower (50) is provided to inject
ambient air into the baking compartment (12).

               1/5
                                                   10
      2320 200          12       21     4
                                          *      100
                                               - 25
                             42                   20 0
                                                    A
                      /         40
                                44    e    -50
                          43      ~54
                                             - - 48
                                          --      200
29 28              22          30
           FIG. 1

           FORCED MOISTURE EVACUATION FOR RAPID BAKING
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is related to U.S. provisional application number
61/839,976 filed on June 27, 2013, U.S. patent application number 14/173,273
filed February 5, 2014, International patent application number
PCT/US2014/022272 filed March 10, 2014 (publication number WO
2015/002678 Al), Australian patent application number 2014284697 filed
March 10, 2014 (publication numbers AU 2014284697 Al and AU 2014284697
B2) and Australian patent application number <removed-apn> filed October 13,
2017 (publication number AU <removed-apn> Al), the entirety of each of which is
hereby fully incorporated by reference herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] The technical field of the disclosure is related to baking ovens.
BRIEF SUMMARY
[0002a] Disclosed herein is a baking device, comprising:
         a housing enclosing a baking compartment and an air handling
compartment;
         a pressure panel separating the air handling compartment and the
baking compartment, the pressure panel forming a first wall of the baking
compartment and including an aperture through the first wall allowing fluid
communication between the baking compartment and the air handling
compartment;
         a first door pivotally mounted to the housing, the first door pivotally
movable between a closed position enclosing the baking compartment and an
open position providing access to the baking compartment;
         a blower wheel mounted adjacent the aperture, the blower wheel
rotatable about a rotational axis to urge air to move through the aperture in a
direction substantially parallel to the rotational axis of the blower wheel from the
baking compartment into the air handling compartment, and radially outward
                                          1

from the blower wheel across a rear surface of the pressure panel opposite
from a front surface of the pressure panel facing the baking compartment
before returning to the baking compartment;
         a secondary blower that is operated by a controller; and
         a vent providing fluid communication between the baking compartment
and an atmosphere,
         wherein, with the first door in the closed position, the secondary blower
is configured to inject ambient air into the baking compartment to increase a
pressure within the baking compartment to urge air having a humidity greater
than a humidity of ambient air to exit the baking compartment through the vent
to the atmosphere.
[0002b]Also disclosed herein is a baking device, comprising:
         a housing including a first wall and a second wall opposing the first
wall;
         a panel coupled between the first wall and the second wall to define a
baking compartment and an air handling compartment within the housing, the
panel including an aperture allowing fluid communication between the baking
compartment and the air handling compartment;
         a blower wheel mounted adjacent the aperture, the blower wheel
rotatable about a rotational axis to urge air to move through the aperture in a
direction substantially parallel to the rotational axis of the blower wheel from the
baking compartment into the air handling compartment, and radially outward
from the blower wheel across a rear surface of the panel opposite from a front
surface of the panel facing the baking compartment before returning to the
baking compartment;
         a first door pivotally mounted to the housing, the first door pivotally
movable between a closed position enclosing the baking compartment and an
open position providing access to the baking compartment;
         a vent providing fluid communication between the baking compartment
and an atmosphere with the first door in the closed position, the vent including
a vent opening in fluid communication with the baking compartment;
                                           la

          a second door selectively positioned with respect to the vent opening in
a first position to expose the vent or a second position to conceal the vent; and
          a secondary blower that is controlled by a controller, wherein the
secondary blower is configured to inject ambient air into the baking
compartment to increase a pressure within the baking compartment to urge air
having a humidity greater than a humidity of ambient air to exit the baking
compartment through the vent to the atmosphere.
[0002c]Also disclosed herein is a method of baking a food product, comprising:
          adjusting a humidity of air within a baking compartment of a baking
device to a humidity greater than a humidity of ambient air;
          receiving an unrisen food product within the baking compartment;
          allowing the unrisen food product to rest within the baking compartment
for a time to allow the unrisen food product to rise in a presence of the relatively
high humidity;
          operating a secondary blower to inject ambient air into the baking
compartment to increase a pressure within the baking compartment to urge air
having the relatively high humidity to exit the baking compartment to the
atmosphere after the time to allow the unrisen food product to rise is complete;
and
          heating the baking compartment to bake the food product,
         wherein the step of operating the secondary blower to inject ambient air
into the baking compartment to increase pressure within the baking
compartment and the step of heating the baking compartment to bake the food
product are performed sequentially and without any operator action and without
any manual reconfiguration of the baking device.
[0003] Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the
like which has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as
an admission that any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or
were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure
as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
                                           1b

[0004] Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not
the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements,
integers or steps.
                                        1c

[0005]     Advantages of the disclosed apparatus and method will become more
apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description of embodiments that
have been shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized, other and
different embodiments are contemplated, and the disclosed details are capable of
modification in various respects. Accordingly, the drawings and description are to be
regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]     FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a portion of a baking compartment and
an air handling compartment of a baking device.
[0007]     FIG. 2 is a right side view of the view of FIG. 1.
[0008]     FIG. 3 is a view of detail A of FIG. 1.
[0009]     FIG. 4 is a view of a portion of the air handling compartment of FIG. 1
from the rear of the baking device.
[0010]     FIG. 5 is a flow-chart of the steps used by the device of FIG. 1 in
performing a proofing and baking cycle.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS AND THE PRESENTLY
PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0011]     Turning now to FIGs. 1-4, a baking device 10 is provided. The baking
device 10 may be configured to both "proof' an unrisen food product (such as
dough, or combinations of dough and other foods, or other types of food products
that might be known in the art to require, or benefit from, a proofing operation and
a baking operation, in series) provided within a baking volume 12 of the device as
well as bake the food product disposed therein. As is well known in the art,
"proofing" a food product is known as allowing time for the food product (such as
un-risen dough) to rise prior to cooking, which may expeditiously occur in an
environment with a relative high humidity, and with a temperature over normal
ambient temperature, such as about 105 degrees Fahrenheit.
[0012]     The baking device 10 may be configured to automatically align itself for
proofing as well as for baking, such that both operations can occur within the
baking device 10 without any operator action.
                                            2

[0013]      The baking device 10 includes a housing 20 that encloses a baking
volume 12 and an air handling compartment 14. The baking compartment 12 is
defined by an upper wall 21, a right wall 23, a left wall (not shown, but similar to
the right wall), a lower wall 22, and a pressure panel 30 that forms the rear wall of
the baking compartment 12. The walls that form the baking compartment 12 are
each rigidly mounted to the housing 20 of the baking device 10 with suitable
support and fastening structures as known in the art. The baking compartment
12 is normally enclosed by one or two doors 28 that are pivotably mounted to the
housing 20 and can be selectively opened and closed to selectively enclose the
baking compartment 12 and allow access therein.
[0014]      In some embodiments, the baking compartment 12 is vented to the
atmosphere through a vent 80, which communicates with the baking
compartment 12 through a vent opening 82. The vent 80 may be open to the
atmosphere, or in some embodiments may be controlled by a door, which is
operatively controlled to expose or conceal the vent by the controller 100 (shown
schematically in FIG. 1).
[0015]      The housing 20 further encloses an air handling compartment 14, which
is partially enclosed by the pressure panel 30, as well as portions of the housing
20 that enclose the upper, lower, rear and side walls of the air handling
compartment 14. The air handling compartment 14 includes a blower wheel 40
that is rotatably connected to a motor. The blower wheel 40 includes a plurality
of fins 42 that extend from a rotor 43 of the blower wheel 40. The blower wheel
40 may be mounted in conjunction with an aperture 32 in the pressure panel 30
that allows for air to flow from the baking compartment 12 and into the blower
wheel 40 when the blower wheel 40 is rotating. As shown schematically in FIG.
2, rotation of the blower wheel 40 urges air to flow along the flow-path X, i.e. from
the baking compartment 12, through the aperture 32, into the blower wheel 40
and then radially outward from the blower wheel 40.
[0016]      The blower wheel 40 may further include one or more spouts 44 that
are disposed upon the rotor 43 of the blower wheel (or another suitable location
upon or with respect to the blower wheel 40). The spouts 44 are configured to
                                           3

spray water onto the fins 42 (or another portion) of the blower wheel 40 as it is
rotating. The water spray is "cut" by the fast moving blower wheel, which
atomizes the water and increases the humidity within the air handling
compartment 14 and the baking compartment 12 (due to the air flow pattern
discussed below). The controller (shown schematically as 100) is operationally
connected to the blower wheel 40 (as well as other portions of the baking device
 10, such as the heaters 48) to selectively operate the blower wheel 40 and the
injection of water through the spouts 44, based upon the operation of a water
system 49 (FIGs. 2 and 4).
[0017]      As mentioned above, the air handling compartment 14 is separated
from the baking compartment 12 by the pressure panel 30. The pressure panel
30 may be mounted to a plurality (such as four) standoffs (not shown) that are
fixed to the back panel 25. In other embodiments, the pressure panel 30 may be
mounted to one or both of the right side wall 23 and the left side wall, such that
an edge of the pressure panel 30 rests snuggly upon the right side wall 23 and
the left side wall, or with a mounting structure therebetween. In some
embodiments, the pressure panel 30 and one or both of the upper and lower
walls 21, 22 define an upper space Y and a lower space Z, respectively,
therebetween that allows for fluid communication from the air handling
compartment 14 to the baking compartment 12.
[0018]       In some embodiments, the upper space Y and/or the lower space Z
may extend along the entire width of the baking compartment 12, while in other
embodiments, the upper space Y and/or the lower space Z may extend along
only a portion of the width of the baking compartment 12, and may be centered
within the baking compartment 12 or offset within the baking compartment 12. As
best appreciated by FIG. 2 (and discussed further below), the upper space Y and
lower space Z each provide a space for air flow from the air handling
compartment 14 to return to the baking compartment 12 (shown schematically as
W), which is urged due to forced flow when the blower wheel 40 is rotating, as
well as when the secondary blower 50 (discussed below) is operating.
                                           4

[0019]     In other embodiments, the pressure panel 30 may be mounted to one
or both of the upper and lower panels 21, 22 with gaps formed between the side
edges of the pressure panel 30 and respective right panel 23 and/or left panel
(left panel not shown but similar to the right panel 23). The air flow from the air
handling compartment 14 to the baking compartment 12 in this embodiment
would be similar to the air flow path W depicted in FIG. 2 although one of ordinary
skill would easily understand that the flow path would be between the side gaps
between the pressure panel 30 and the side walls.
[0020]     The air handling compartment 14 further includes a secondary blower
50 that is mounted to inject air (which may be drawn from the ambient or from
another source) into the air handling compartment 14. The secondary blower 50
is configured to operate to inject air into the baking device 10 to increase the
pressure within the housing 20, and specifically the baking compartment 12, to
urge the air to exit the baking compartment 12 through the vent 80 (discussed
above). As shown schematically in FIG. 2, during operation of the secondary
blower 50, air enters into the air handling compartment 14 from the discharge of
the secondary blower 50 as shown as path V, and upon interaction with the rear
surface of the pressure panel 30, either flows upward (past the blower wheel 40)
and into the baking compartment 12 through the upper space Y, or downward
and into the baking compartment through lower space Z. The secondary blower
50 normally operates when the one or more doors 28 are closed to allow the
environment within the baking compartment 12 to be changed out (i.e. the
relatively hot air and or the relatively humid air) rapidly due to the pressure
increase within the baking compartment 12, which urges air within the cooking
compartment 12 to exit through the vent 80. The secondary blower 50 (operating
in conjunction with the other features of the baking device 10) allows for the
device 10 to change between "proofing" and baking configurations in a relatively
rapid manner and without any operator action or manual reconfiguration of the
device.
[0021]     The discharge of the secondary blower 50 may be selectively isolated
by a flapper 54. In some embodiments, the flapper 54 is normally shut to prevent
                                            5

the flow of air from within the air handling compartment 14 to flow into the
secondary blower 50 when not in operation. The flapper 54 is configured to open
(either by the discharge pressure of the secondary blower 50 or automatically
(with a solenoid or other suitable operator (shown schematically as 55a in FIG.
4)) to allow the discharge of the secondary blower 50 to enter the air handling
compartment 14, along air flow path V shown schematically in FIG. 2. In other
embodiments, the flapper may be biased, or urged, toward the open (or closed)
position with a spring 55, or alternatively biased by to the force of gravity acting
upon the flapper 54.. In embodiments, where the flapper 54 is biased to the
closed position, the flapper 54 may be selectively opened by a solenoid or other
automatic and remote opening feature (that operates against the biasing force),
or may be opened due to the discharge force of the secondary blower 50
imparted upon the flapper 54. Alternatively, in embodiments, where the flapper
54 is biased open, a solenoid or other automatic and remote opening feature
(that operates against the biasing force) may be provided to automatically close
the flapper 54 when appropriate.
[0022]     FIGs. 1-4 each show the flapper 54 as partially open, and one of
ordinary skill in the art will understand with reference to this specification that the
flapper 54 can move to (or be moved to) a position where the discharge of the
secondary blower 50 is isolated. One of ordinary skill will also appreciate that the
flapper 54 may be able to open more fully than depicted in the figures (such as at
an orientation substantially parallel to the direction of air flow from the secondary
blower 50) as urged by the air flow, or as urged open by another structure, such
as a solenoid valve. In some embodiments, the flapper 54 may be hingedly
attached to the housing 20, at one of the top, bottom, or right or left sides of the
flapper 54 and be urged to the isolation positions by a spring (shown
schematically in FIG. 3 as 55).
[0023]     In use and as shown in FIG. 5, the device 10 may operate with the
baking compartment 12 operating as a proofer (i.e. a holding environment for a
food product (such as dough) to allow the food product to expeditiously rise in the
presence of a somewhat elevated temperature over room temperature as well as
                                            6

a relatively high humidity). The device 10 may then be automatically configured
such that the baking compartment 12 is converted to a baking environment, with
the temperature therein increased to a normal baking temperature (e.g. 350-375
degrees) with a lower humidity than in the proofing step.
[0024]     Initially, the baking compartment 12 is configured to receive an un-risen
food product therein, which may occur when the baking compartment has a
temperature and humidity similar to ambient conditions, or in a situation where
the baking compartment has an increased temperature (e.g. to about 90 degrees)
and/or with an increased humidity. If the baking compartment 12 needs to be
adjusted (either in humidity or temperature) to a proofing environment, then the
heaters 48 may be cyclically operated to increase the temperature within the
baking compartment 12, and/or the blower wheel 40 and associated water
system 49 and spouts 43 may be operated to increase the relative humidity of the
baking compartment 12 (through fluid and thermal communication with the air
handling compartment 14 through one or more of the aperture 32, and the upper
and lower spaces Y, Z) (step 500). The operation of the heaters 48 and/or the
blower wheel 40 and water system 49 may be operated by the controller 100 in
response to various parameter measurements of the baking compartment 12
made by temperature, humidity, or other sensors (shown schematically as 200 in
FIG. 1) disposed with respect to the baking compartment 12.
[0025]     After the baking compartment 12 is at a suitable proofing temperature
and humidity, the food product is received within the baking compartment 12 (as
monitored by the opening and closing of the doors 28, or by an input provided by
the operator) (step 510), the baking compartment 12 may be maintained with
these conditions for a sufficient time for adequate rising of the food product, as
controlled by the controller 100 (step 520). In some embodiments, the controller
 100 may be pre-programmed with various "recipes" or operations to control the
operation of the device (such as the proofing time) based upon an input by the
user (into an input device, either on the baking device 10 or associated with the
baking device 10) of the food to be proofed and baked. In other embodiments,
                                           7

the elapsed proofing time may be monitored by the user, and the steps to
reconfigure the baking compartment 12 for baking may be directed by the user.
[0026]     After the completion of the sufficient proofing time, the controller 100
may initiate flow of the secondary blower 50 (step 530). In embodiments where
the position of the flapper 54 is controlled by the controller 100 (and not based
upon the discharge pressure of the secondary blower 50), the controller 100
provides the appropriate signal to open the flapper 54 prior to initiating the
secondary blower 50. The operation of the secondary blower 50 increases the
pressure within the baking compartment 12, which urges the air therewithin (with
a relatively high humidity) to exit the baking compartment through the vent 80,
which is replaced with air that is at the ambient humidity. In some embodiments,
the secondary blower 50 may cycle for a sufficient time to replace an amount of
air equivalent to a certain number of volumes of the baking compartment 12 (or
the combined baking compartment 12 and air handling compartment 14), such as
5 or 10 volumes, to ensure that the humidity of the baking compartment 12 has
decreased to acceptable levels for baking. In other embodiments, the secondary
blower 50 may operate for as long as needed to have the monitored humidity
within the baking compartment 12 (as monitored by a humidity sensor 200) to
decrease to acceptable levels.
[0027]     After the secondary blower 50 has operated for a sufficient amount of
time and/or an acceptable humidity has been reached (as monitored by the
sensors 200 and controller 100), the secondary blower 50 is secured and the
flapper 54 is allowed to close (or is closed by the controller 100) (step 540). The
heaters 48 then operate to increase the temperature of the baking compartment
 12 to the normal baking temperature, as controlled by the controller 100 (step
550). In some embodiments, the baking temperature may be stored in the
controller 100 based upon a recipe, or the cooking temperature may be inputted
into the device 10 the user. In some embodiments, the blower wheel 40 may be
rotated during the operation of the heaters 48 to increase the uniformity of the
temperature within the baking compartment 12 (due to the flow paths X and W,
FIG. 2, when the blower wheel 40 is operating). After the desired temperature is
                                           8

reached, the heaters 48 (and blower wheel 40 as appropriate) is cyclically
operated to maintain the temperature (either a constant temperature, or in some
embodiments a controlled but changing temperature if appropriate) for a desired
baking time (step 560). At the conclusion of the baking time, the controller 100
initiates an alarm to notify the user that the food product can be removed from the
baking compartment 12.
[0028]      Upon removal of the food product, the controller further operates the
device 10 as desired based upon the user (which may include the user providing
certain inputs of the next desired step, i.e. another proofing/baking cycle, another
baking (only) cycle, etc.). In some embodiments, the opening and closing of the
one or more doors 28 may generate a signal to the controller 100 that the food
product has been removed, while in other embodiments, the user may manually
indicate that the food product has been removed. The controller 100 in this step
confirms that the baked food product has been removed from the baking
compartment (step 570).
[0029]      If the controller 100 then may request the user to provide further
instructions of what the next operation of the device 10 that is desired (step 580).
Upon receipt of a signal that another proofing/baking cycle is desired (and
receives a signal that the food product has been removed from the baking
compartment 12), the controller 100 then cools down the baking compartment 12
to an environment suitable for proofing (step 590). The controller 100 starts the
secondary blower 50 (which opens the flapper 54, or the controller 100 causes
the flapper 54 to open), which introduced ambient air into the baking
compartment 12 and the air handling compartment 14. The operation of the
secondary blower 50 increases the pressure within the baking compartment 12,
which causes air therewithin to exit the baking compartment 12 through the vent
80. The blower wheel 40 may operate at this time to increase the mixing of the
air within the baking compartment 12 and air handling compartment 14, and in
some embodiments, the water system 49 and the spouts 44 may introduce water
into the air handling compartment 14, to decrease the air temperature due to the
energy loss as the water flashes to steam. When the desired proofing
                                            9

temperature is reached (as monitored by the sensors 200 within the baking
compartment 12), the secondary blower 50 is secured (and the flapper 54 is
closed, either automatically, or by the controller 100). The user is then notified
that the baking compartment 12 is ready for another proofing cycle. After the
controller 100 senses that a food product to-be-proofed has been placed within
the baking compartment 12 (by the signals of the one or more doors 28 opening
and closing, or by an input by the user), the controller 100 initiates the next
proofing and baking cycle as discussed above.
[0030]       While the preferred embodiments have been described, it should be
understood that the invention is not so limited and modifications may be made
without departing from the invention. The scope of the invention is defined by the
appended claims, and all devices that come within the meaning of the claims, either
literally or by equivalence, are intended to be embraced therein.
                                            10

CLAIMS:
1.       A baking device, comprising:
         a housing enclosing a baking compartment and an air handling
compartment;
         a pressure panel separating the air handling compartment and the
baking compartment, the pressure panel forming a first wall of the baking
compartment and including an aperture through the first wall allowing fluid
communication between the baking compartment and the air handling
compartment;
         a first door pivotally mounted to the housing, the first door pivotally
movable between a closed position enclosing the baking compartment and an
open position providing access to the baking compartment;
         a blower wheel mounted adjacent the aperture, the blower wheel
rotatable about a rotational axis to urge air to move through the aperture in a
direction substantially parallel to the rotational axis of the blower wheel from the
baking compartment into the air handling compartment, and radially outward
from the blower wheel across a rear surface of the pressure panel opposite
from a front surface of the pressure panel facing the baking compartment
before returning to the baking compartment;
         a secondary blower that is operated by a controller; and
         a vent providing fluid communication between the baking compartment
and an atmosphere,
         wherein, with the first door in the closed position, the secondary blower
is configured to inject ambient air into the baking compartment to increase a
pressure within the baking compartment to urge air having a humidity greater
than a humidity of ambient air to exit the baking compartment through the vent
to the atmosphere.
2.       A baking device, comprising:
         a housing including a first wall and a second wall opposing the first
wall;
                                           11

          a panel coupled between the first wall and the second wall to define a
baking compartment and an air handling compartment within the housing, the
panel including an aperture allowing fluid communication between the baking
compartment and the air handling compartment;
          a blower wheel mounted adjacent the aperture, the blower wheel
rotatable about a rotational axis to urge air to move through the aperture in a
direction substantially parallel to the rotational axis of the blower wheel from the
baking compartment into the air handling compartment, and radially outward
from the blower wheel across a rear surface of the panel opposite from a front
surface of the panel facing the baking compartment before returning to the
baking compartment;
          a first door pivotally mounted to the housing, the first door pivotally
movable between a closed position enclosing the baking compartment and an
open position providing access to the baking compartment;
          a vent providing fluid communication between the baking compartment
and an atmosphere with the first door in the closed position, the vent including
a vent opening in fluid communication with the baking compartment;
          a second door selectively positioned with respect to the vent opening in
a first position to expose the vent or a second position to conceal the vent; and
          a secondary blower that is controlled by a controller, wherein the
secondary blower is configured to inject ambient air into the baking
compartment to increase a pressure within the baking compartment to urge air
having a humidity greater than a humidity of ambient air to exit the baking
compartment through the vent to the atmosphere.
3.        The baking device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the controller is configured
to operate the secondary blower in order to replace a number of volumes of air
within the baking compartment to reduce the baking compartment's humidity
and thereby make an environment in the baking compartment more conducive
to baking.
                                           12

4.       The baking device of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the panel is coupled to
the housing and the panel is sized to create a space between at least one of
the top wall, the bottom wall, the left wall, and the right wall defining the baking
compartment and the panel, the space providing fluid communication between
the baking compartment and the air handling compartment and, during
operation of the secondary blower, the secondary blower is configured to urge
air to move from the air handling compartment to the baking compartment
through the space.
5.       A method of baking a food product, comprising:
         adjusting a humidity of air within a baking compartment of a baking
device to a humidity greater than a humidity of ambient air;
         receiving an unrisen food product within the baking compartment;
         allowing the unrisen food product to rest within the baking compartment
for a time to allow the unrisen food product to rise in a presence of the relatively
high humidity;
         operating a secondary blower to inject ambient air into the baking
compartment to increase a pressure within the baking compartment to urge air
having the relatively high humidity to exit the baking compartment to the
atmosphere after the time to allow the unrisen food product to rise is complete;
and
         heating the baking compartment to bake the food product,
         wherein the step of operating the secondary blower to inject ambient air
into the baking compartment to increase pressure within the baking
compartment and the step of heating the baking compartment to bake the food
product are performed sequentially and without any operator action and without
any manual reconfiguration of the baking device.
                                          13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
