   Abstract
   In one aspect there is provided a method for the
   autonomous drilling of ground holes by a drill rig
 5 including a drilling arrangement.  The method comprises
   the step of: utilising an autonomous drilling procedure to
   control the drilling arrangement to drill the hole on
   locating the drill rig in a position where the hole is to
   be drilled.
10

                                1
    A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR THE AUTONOMOUS DRILLING OF GROUND
                              HOLES
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5
        This invention relates to a method for the autonomous
   drilling of ground holes and, particularly, although not
   exclusively, to the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   for the purposes of exploration, mining and/or
10 construction. In particular, the invention relates to the
   autonomous drilling of ground holes which are used for
   subsequent blasting.
   BACKGROUND
15
         Typically, ground holes are drilled by drill rigs in
   order to produce a hole for use in mining or construction.
   In some instances, these holes are drilled by a drill rig
   controlled by a user who plans and executes the drilling
20 process.
         The operation of a drill rig requires the
   consideration of many variables before the user can
   successfully initiate and complete the drilling operation.
25 These variables include ground or surface conditions,  the
   geological status of the area, environmental conditions,
   the intended purpose of the hole and the inherent
   limitations of the drilling equipment. In some situations,
   there may not be enough information at the initial stage
30 for the user to make an appropriate or informed decision
   in other words once drilling has commenced, the user
   generally makes appropriate adjustments in order to
   successfully drill the hole.
35       In situations such as mining or construction, it may
   be necessary to drill many holes in a large geographic
   area. Typically, where the user is required to make

                                 2
   appropriate adjustments in order to successfully drill a
   hole, the drilling process may be inefficient, expensive
   and time consuming.
 5        In open mining operations, for example, there is a
   need to balance the speed of drilling holes against the
   stability of the hole formed.   When preparing the ground
   for blasting there may be literally hundreds of holes
   required with drilling, which may take a number of days to
10 drill.   There may also be some time before the holes are
   eventually filled with explosives for blasting.   In the
   event of materials re-entering the holes, the
   effectiveness of the subsequent blast is reduced.
15      Where significant hole re-filling occurs there can be
   a need to re-drill such holes.   In all ground filling, it
   is usual for a collar of drilled material to form around
   the drill string creating the hole.   The stability of such
   a collar is dependent on many factors - geology, waste
20 chip size, etc.   In open pit mining an additional factor
   is that the surface being drilled may be disturbed or
   broken, such as from earlier blasting and the subsequent
   removal of blast material.   Thus, it is critical that a
   stable collar is formed so that backfilling of the hole
25 during drilling for post drilling is minimized or avoided.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        In accordance with a first aspect of the present
30 invention, there is provided a method for the autonomous
   drilling of ground holes by a drill rig including a
   drilling arrangement, comprising the step of: utilising an
   autonomous drilling procedure to control the drilling
   arrangement to drill the hole upon locating the drill rig
35 in a position where the hole is to be drilled.

                                 3
         In an embodiment of the first aspect, the drilling
   procedure comprises the step of instructing the drilling
   arrangement to drill in a manner which produces a collar
   around the hole with debris from the hole.
 5
         In an embodiment of the first aspect, the drilling
   procedure further comprises the step of instructing the
   drilling arrangement to flush the drill hole.
10       In an embodiment of the first aspect, the drilling
   procedure further comprises the step of instructing the
   drilling arrangement to stabilise the inner walls of the
   hole.
15       In an embodiment of the first aspect, the drilling
   procedure further comprises the step of retracting the
   drilling arrangement from the ground hole.
         In an embodiment of the first aspect, the step of
20 stabilising the inner walls of the hole includes detecting
   fallback in the hole, and where the amount of fallback
   exceeds a pre-determined value, instructing the drilling
   arrangement to repeat any one or more drilling procedures.
25       In an embodiment of the first aspect, the step of
   instructing the drilling arrangement to drill in a manner
   which produces a collar around the hole with debris from
   the hole comprises instructions to repeatedly penetrate
   and retract the drilling arrangement within the hole.
30
         In an embodiment of the first aspect, the step of
   instructing the drilling arrangement to flush the drill
   hole comprises instructions to increase the flow of
   liquids from the drilling arrangement to the drill hole.
35
         In an embodiment of the first aspect, the step of
   instructing the drilling arrangement to stabilise the

                                4
   inner walls of the hole comprises instructions to
   repeatedly penetrate and retract the drilling arrangement
   within the hole.
 5      In an embodiment of the first aspect, statuses
   relating to the drilling arrangement are monitored by a
   processor.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the statuses
10 relating to the drilling arrangement includes drill
   rotation speed, rotation pressure, bit air pressure, pull
   down speed, pull down pressure, depth sensor, air
   pressure, fluid flow rate or any combination thereof.
15      In an embodiment of the first aspect, statuses
   relating to the drill rig are monitored by a processor.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the statuses
   include the position of the drill rig and the
20 initialisation status.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the statuses
   are retrieved by at least one sensor, the sensor being in
   communication with the processor.
25
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the processor
   selects steps to instruct the drilling arrangement based
   on the statuses relating to at least one of the drilling
   arrangement and/or at least one of the statuses relating
30 to the drill rig.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the drilling
   arrangement to manoeuvre the drilling arrangement relative
   to the desired location of the ground hole.
35

                                5
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the pull down
   rate of the drilling arrangement.
 5      In an embodiment of the first aspect, the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the pull up
   rate of the drilling arrangement.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the processor
10 instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the rotation
   speed of the drilling arrangement.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the bit air
15 pressure of the drilling arrangement.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the liquid flow
   rate of the drilling arrangement.
20
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to meet a determined
   target by controlling the pull up rate, pull down rate,
   rotation speed, bit air pressure, liquid flow rate or any
25 combination thereof.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to meet a determined
   target by manoeuvring the drilling arrangement.
30
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the determined
   target is to drill a hole of a predetermined depth.
        In an embodiment of the first aspect, the determined
35 target is to maximise penetration rates whilst minimising
   wear on the drill arrangement.

                                6
       In an embodiment of the first aspect, the determined
   target is to maintain a stable collar.
        In accordance with a second aspect of the present
 5 invention, there is provided a system for autonomous
   drilling of ground holes by a drill rig including a
   drilling arrangement, comprising: locating module arranged
   to locate the drill rig in a position where the hole is to
   be drilled; and, a processor arranged to process a
10 drilling procedure to control the drilling arrangement to
   drill the hole.
        In accordance with a third aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a computer program comprising
15 at least one instruction for controlling a computer system
   to implement a method in accordance with the first aspect.
        In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a computer readable medium
20 providing a computer program in accordance with the first
   aspect.
        In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a transmission or receiving a
25 data signal including the program code of the first
   aspect.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
30     Embodiments of the present invention will now be
   described, by way of example, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings in which:
         Figure 1 is a diagram illustrating a drill rig in
35 accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
        Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of the sensors,
   processor and controller of the drill rig of Figure 1;

                                7
        Figure 3 is a flow diagram illustrating an example
   operation of a drill rig in accordance with Figure 1;
        Figures 4(i),  (ii) and (iii) are diagrams
   illustrating the operation of the drill bit in accordance
 5 with each step illustrated in Figure 3; and,
        Figure 5 is a chart illustrating the operating depth
   of the drill in an example drilling procedure.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
10
       Referring to Figure 1, there is shown an embodiment of
   a method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes by a
   drill rig including a drilling arrangement, comprising the
   step of: utilising an autonomous drilling procedure to
15 control the drilling arrangement to drill the hole on
   locating the drill rig in a position where the hole is to
   be drilled.
       In this embodiment, the drill rig 100 has a frame 112
20 housing a number of components such as a drill string 102
   connected to a drill bit 104, which define at least part
   of the drilling arrangement. In operation, the drill rig
   100 positions the drill arrangement over a surface 116 for
   drilling into the surface to produce a hole 118. As the
25 person skilled in the art would appreciate, in the context
   of the present specification the drilling arrangement can
   include, without limitation, any components which
   facilitate the drilling of ground holes, including the
   frame 112, drill string 102, drill bit 104, air or fluid
30 pumps suitable for delivering fluids to the drill bit 104
   or surface, or engine or power source, controlling
   mechanisms such as hydraulic controls to position the
   drill string 102 and/or actuator systems which activate
   and control each of the drilling components.
35
       In this example, the drill rig 100 is a mobile drill
   rig having tracks 108 to facilitate its movement on a

                                8
   surface and a plurality of hydraulic jacks 114 arranged to
   level the rig 100 during the drilling operation. The jacks
   114 also reduce the stress of the drilling operation on
   the tracks 108 of the rig, and thereby increase the
 5 service life of the tracks 108.
       In some embodiments, the drill rig 100 has a drilling
   arrangement including a rotary type drill whereby the
   drill is driven in a rotary manner into the ground to
10 produce a hole. In these embodiments, the rotary type
   drill uses rotary drill bits to cut into the surface. In
   other embodiments, the drill rig 100 may have a hammer
   type drilling arrangement suitable for percussion
   drilling. In these embodiments, a hammer drill bit is
15 fitted into a hammer which is used to force the hammer
   drill bit into the surface in order to cut or break into
   the surface. Depending on the terrain and/or application,
   either type of drilling arrangement may be used as
   required, and the autonomous drilling methodology
20 described herein may be applied to the described or other
   drill types.
       The drill rig 100 is connected to a control system 106
   which in this embodiment comprises a computing module
25 which may be standalone (such as a server) or may be a
   module within a larger multifunction computing system. The
   server or computing module 106 may be located within the
   drill rig 100, or connected to the rig 100 through a
   telecommunication connection 110. In this embodiment, the
30 computing module 106 comprises suitable components
   necessary to receive, store and execute appropriate
   computer instructions.  The components may include a
   processing unit 106A, read-only memory  (ROM) 106B, random
   access memory (RAM) 106C, and input/output devices such as
35 disk drives 106D, input devices 106E such as an Ethernet
   port, a USB port, etc.,  display 106F such as a liquid
   crystal display, a light emitting display or any other

                                9
   suitable display, and communications links 106G.   The
   computing module 106 includes instructions that may be
   contained in ROM 106B, RAM 106C or disk drives 106D and
   may be executed by the processing unit 106H.   There may be
 5 provided a plurality of communication links 1061 which may
   variously connect to one or more computing devices such as
   a server, personal computers, terminals, wireless or
   handheld computing devices, and/or proprietary control
   interfaces.  At least one of a plurality of communications
10 links may be connected to an external computing network
   through a telephone line or other type of communications
   link.
         The computing module 106 may include storage devices
15 such as a disk drive 106D which may encompass solid state
   drives, hard disk drives, optical drives or magnetic tape
   drives.  The computing module 106 may use a single disk
   drive or multiple disk drives.   The computing module 106
   may also have a suitable operating system 106J which
20 resides on the disk drive or in the ROM of the server or
   computing module 106.
       In this embodiment, the computing module 106 is
   arranged to receive data from the drill rig 100 relating
25 to its position and operational status, process received
   data utilising the processor  (and other hardware, such as
   memory) and provide controlling signals to the drill rig
   100 to control the operation of the drill rig 100. The
   controlling signals include, but are not limited to, the
30 movement of the drill rig 100 from a first location to a
   second location, or the execution of a drilling procedure
   of which an example is described below with reference to
   Figures 3, 4 and 5. The computing module 106 may also
   execute individual procedures which may be stored in
35 executable modules such as software functions,
   programmable arrays, ROM, programmed hardware modules,

                                10
   etc. to provide drilling methodologies for processing by a
   processor 200 of the computing module 106.
       With reference to Figure 2, there is shown an
 5 embodiment of the processor 200 within the computing
   module 106 connected to a sensor array 202 and a drill rig
   controller 204.
       In this embodiment, the processor 200 is arranged to
10 monitor the operation of the drill rig 100 by receiving,
   recording and processing the data received from each of
   the sensors of the sensor array 202. Once the sensor data
   is received, the processor 200 executes a suitable program
   to process and consider the data received from the sensor
15 and provides a list of instructions to the drill rig
   controller 204 which interfaces with the drill rig 100 in
   order to operate the drill rig 100.
       As illustrated, the sensor array 202 comprises
20 multiple sensors which are located throughout the drill
   rig. These sensors include, but are not limited to:
       A) Sensors relating to the operation and status of the
   Drill String/Bit:
25       1 - Drill rotation speed;
         2 - Drill rotation direction;
         3 - Rotation Pressure;
        4 - Bit air pressure;
         5 - Pull-Down Speed;
30       6 - Pull-Down Pressure;
         7 - Depth Sensor;
         8 - Air Pressure; and
         9 - Water/Fluid flow rate;
35     B) Sensors relating to the Drill Rig Status:
         1 - Position; and
         2 - Initialisation/readiness status.

                                 11
       These sensors are positioned throughout the drill rig
   and provide data relating to the operation of the drill
   for processing by the processor. In the embodiment
 5 described herein, the sensors are connected to a bus or
   other connective network   (not shown) to form a sensor
   array 202 capable of transmitting the information to the
   processor 200 for processing.
10     Once the processor 200 receives information from the
   sensor array 202, the processor 200 is arranged to monitor
   the information and process the information to find a
   suitable and optimal method to either initiate, continue
   or complete the drilling operation. Once the method is
15 determined by the processor 200, the method is translated
   into machine instructions by the drill rig controller 204
   which then connects to the drill rig 100 to operate the
   tracks 108, drill string 102, drill bit 104 and/or jacks
   114 to initiate, continue or complete a drilling
20 procedure. During the drilling procedure, feedback
   information from the sensor array 202   is provided to the
   processor 200 and based on information received.    The
   processor 200 adjusts the operation of the drill rig 100
   by determining the suitable or optical method of drilling,
25 which is transmitted to the controller 204 to be executed
   by the drill rig 100.  This process of feedback and
   adjustment continues through a loop until the drilling
   operation is complete.
30     The processor 200 may be connected to an automation
   communication module 206 arranged to transmit data to a
   separate location such that the operation of the drill rig
   100 and the information monitored and processed by the
   processor 200 may be observed by a remote user or stored
35 for record purposes. In some embodiments, the automation
   communication module 206 has an interface to allow a user

                                  12
   to manually override the processor 200 and issue commands
   to control the drill rig 100 manually.
         With reference to Figures 3 and 4, an example of a
 5 drilling procedure is shown. In this example, each
   procedure (300) to    (310) (also shown in Figure 4) is
   processed by the processor 200 whilst monitoring the
   information received from the sensor array 202. Once each
   step is completed, the processor 200 proceeds to the next
10 step. It will be appreciated by the person skilled in the
   art that not all steps outlined below may     be necessary
   for each hole drilled, as environmental factors or ground
   conditions may render some of the steps redundant or
   superfluous. In cases where conditions preclude the need
15 to carry out certain steps, the processor 200 may
   automatically skip or override the step, or a user may
   manually override the step either before or during the
   drilling operation.
20        In the example drilling methodology described herein,
   the drill rig 100 is firstly initialised to be in a ready
   state before the drilling operation is started. This may
   include detection of whether the drill rig has been
   physically prepared for drilling (such as the shutting of
25 trap doors, etc). As the person skilled in the art will
   appreciate, different drill rigs have individual types of
   initializing checks. The status of the drill rig 100 is
   transmitted from the sensor array 202 to the processor 200
   for processing. Once the processor 200 checks off the
30 sensor information and deems the rig 100 ready for
   drilling, the processor will proceed to execute the find
   surface module (300) to detect the surface level of a
   drill   site  (300).
35       The find surface module  (300) is responsible for the
   detection of the surface level. This process is arranged
   to ascertain:

                                13
       -     the location of the hole to start the collaring
             process;
       -     the level of the entrance of the hole;
       -     the depth of the hole relative to the surface
 5           which is to be drilled; and
       -     the absolute depth of the hole in 3D space (as
             determined by a navigation solution, such as
             GPS), of the drill rig.
10     In this example, the module  (300) instructs the drill
   string 102 to move slowly towards the surface whilst the
   drill bit 104 is rotated (400). The processor 200, through
   the sensor array 204, monitors the pressure on the drill
   rig 100 whilst the drill bit 104 contacts the surface.
15 Generally, the faster the drill string is lowered into the
   surface, the higher the pressure on the drill string 102
   and drill bit 104.
       In this embodiment, the surface level detection step
20 may be effected by any one of several possible
   methodologies. In one example, the processor 200 monitors
   for pressure spikes based on the pull down operation of
   the drill string 102 whilst monitoring the rotation or bit
   air pressure of the drill. Once the pull down rate
25 approaches zero, the surface level is likely to have been
   detected. However, to ensure accuracies in surface level
   detection, two additional measures can be considered by
   the processor 200.
30     The first of these measures includes the use of an
   offset in ground detection wherein the offset is
   configured based on the geometry of the drill. The offset
   allows the processor 200 to consider the detection of the
   surface level by comparing the offset with the information
35 received from the sensor regarding the pull-down rate. By
   using this offset, the geometry of the drill rig is

                                14
   included in determining the surface level and thereby
   increases the accuracy of the ground detection step.
       The second measure includes the evaluation of the
 5 pressure spikes and reduction in pull down speed over a
   short period of time. By monitoring these values over a
   short period of time, the processor 200 can determine that
   the pull down speed and higher pressure levels are
   sustainable and not temporary, which therefore indicates
10 that a surface level has been detected.
       Once the processor 200 detects the surface, the level
   is stored as the current surface level in either volatile
   memory or in permanent memory such as a disk or database
15 controlled by the processor 200. This value can then be
   used to determine whether a suitable hole depth has been
   attained at a later stage.
       In alternative embodiments, navigation solutions such
20 as, but not limited to the GPS (Global Positioning System)
   service can be used to find the suitable depth of the hole
   that is to be drilled. As navigation solutions, including
   the GPS service, are able to provide a co-ordinate in 3D
   space (relative to a suitable datum), the absolute depth
25 of a hole once drilled can also be detected based on the
   received 3D co-ordinates. By comparing this to the surface
   level which has been detected by the processor 200, the
   processor can find the relative depth of the hole by
   comparing the absolute depth of the hole with the surface
30 level.
       The processor 200 then proceeds to begin the collaring
   process by executing the instructions of the collaring
   module (302).
35
       The collaring module (302) is arranged to operate the
   processor 200 to control the drill rig to execute a

                                 15
   collaring procedure  (402). A collaring procedure is a
   drill procedure whereby debris from a drill hole is
   brought to the surface to form a "collar" around the
   entrance to the hole, in order to stabilise the entrance
 5 of the hole. As such, the collaring procedure forms a
   collar 412 of debris from the drill hole. This measure is
   important in situations where the ground is very soft or
   if the ground is shattered or composed of gravel or other
   loose material. By producing a collar 412 around the hole
10 before the drilling is initiated, the amount of "fall
   back" which falls into the hole during the drilling
   process is reduced.
       In this embodiment, the processor 200 monitors the
15 information from the sensor array 204 to determine whether
   the collaring procedure is required. If, for example, the
   ground to be drilled is very hard, the processor may
   choose to skip the collaring procedure. However, where the
   processor 200 determines that the collaring process is to
20 proceed, the processor 200 executes the instructions of
   the collaring module  (302).
       In this example, the collaring module  (302) instructs
   the drill rig 100 to drill with lower set-points but with
25 full air and high water or fluid settings. These settings
   are configurable and depend on the geology of the site.
   Once the drilling process is initiated and after a certain
   configurable distance, or, if hole fall in has been
   detected by monitoring increasing air pressure and
30 decreasing drilling performance, the drill movement is
   reversed and the drill string 102 will be pulled out of
   the hole or moved up a configurable distance from the
   hole. This process will transport parts of the material or
   debris which have fallen in the hole during the drill
35 process out onto the surface to form part of the collar
   412. Debris which falls back into the hole during this
   process can be removed by further drilling of the hole by

                                  16
   the drill bit 104, which will shatter the fallback within
   the hole.
        Once the procedure listed above is complete, the drill
 5 is lowered into the hole again and the drilling repeated
   until a configurable distance has been reached or the
   amount of fallback in the hole is acceptable. Preferably,
   at least one pullout cycle is required as the water or
   fluid delivered to the drill is spread up and down the
10 hole to form a layer of clay on the inner walls of the
   hole to stabilise the structure.
        Once the collaring procedure is complete, the drilling
   module (304) is executed by the processor 200 to start the
15 drilling procedure (404). The module (304) is arranged to
   maximise penetration rates whilst reducing unnecessary
   wear and tear on the drilling rig 100. In order to
   facilitate this requirement, the processor 200 monitors
   the depth of the hole, pull down pressure and the rotation
20 pressure   (bit air pressure in percussion drilling).  The
   drilling module (304) monitors these values and assesses
   the values to ascertain the progress of the drilling
    (depth) and pressure on the drill rig 100   (rotation
   pressure or pull down pressure).
25
          As the geology of the ground may change as the drill
   pushes further into the ground, the processor 200
   continues to monitor these variables which are detected by
   the sensors and transmitted to the processor 200 by the
30 sensor array 204. The processor 200, by executing the
   drilling module, balances the progress of the drilling
   operation (depth or penetration rates) with the pull down
   or rotation pressure of the drill. If, for example, the
   rotation pressure or pull down pressure exceeds a certain
35 threshold whilst the level of penetration is minimal, the
   pull down or pull up speed may be adjusted in response to
   these detected values. Preferably, the processor 200 finds

                                17
   an optimal target that maximises drill penetration whilst
   minimising wear and tear on the drill or, ensuring the
   collar is stable during the drilling process. The drilling
   process is deemed to be complete when a certain flushing
 5 depth has been reached.
       In alterative embodiments, the drilling module (304)
   may also control the inflow of air and/or water/fluid into
   the hole to assist with the drilling process. The addition
10 of water, fluids or air into the hole during the drilling
   process may be invoked to reach the optimal target of
   maximising drill penetration.
       Once the drilling procedure  (404) is completed, the
15 flushing module is executed by the processor 200   (304).
   The flushing module instructs the rig to complete a
   flushing procedure (406), which is usually executed when
   the drill has almost reached a desired depth (say, within
   the last few metres of the desired depth of the hole).    The
20 flushing module operates in a similar manner to the
   drilling module but increases the amount of water or fluid
   flow rate to the hole. This increase in water or fluid
   flow rate may increase the moisture or wetness in the
   collar 412, which may cause a layer of crust to form on
25 the collar 412 and thereby assist in further stabilising
   the collar 412.
       Once the flushing is completed, the processor 200
   initiates the reaming module  (308) which activates the
30 reaming process. The reaming process is the process of
   clearing out the hole and assuring the stability of the
   hole. In one example, this is achieved by retrieving the
   drill string from the bottom of the hole to the top, and
   repeatedly moving the drill string 102 to the bottom of
35 the hole  (408), to test the integrity of the hole. Of
   course, in some geological conditions, this step may not
   be necessary.

                                18
       During the reaming process  (408), the processor 200
   may monitor the depth of the hole and decide whether the
   hole is of a suitable depth. As fallback or incomplete
 5 drilling may have caused the depth of the hole to have
   changed, the processor 200 may decide to repeat the
   drilling or flushing process to ensure the hole is of a
   suitable depth. This is particularly important in blasting
   operations where the depth of the hole, including
10 fallback, must be carefully measured to ensure maximum
   explosive capability is extracted from blasting material
   which is detonated in the hole. As shown at   (309), the
   reaming process may repeat the steps of drilling, flushing
   and reaming until a suitable depth is reached.
15
       Once the reaming module  (310) has been completed, the
   processor 200 will execute the retrieving module which
   will retrieve the drill string 102 and drill bit 104 from
   the hole to the deck level of the rig 100. The reaming
20 module may include instructions to shut off water or air
   flows whilst also switching off the drill.
       In alternative embodiments, the processor 200 may
   execute additional instructions to assist in the execution
25 of each of the procedures in Figure 3. These additional
   instructions include:
       1. Bog detection -where the processor detects that the
   drill string has been bogged by looking for high rotation
30 pressure but low rotation RPM with little or low
   penetration rates.
       2. Hammer jam detection - where the processor 200
   detects that the hammer has been jammed by identifying
35 that there is a high bit air pressure but a lower
   penetration rate.

                                  19
        3. Hole fall in detection - where the processor 200
   detects that material or debris is falling into a hole
   which may jam the drill string. This can be identified by
   monitoring rising bit air pressure, lower penetration
 5 rates whilst rotation and pull down pressure remains
   normal.
        There is also provided an interface which is connected
   to the processor 200 to allow an operator to manually
10 override or reprogram each of the modules    (302) to (310).
   In some embodiments, the interface is located remotely
   from the drill rig 100. In these embodiments, the
   processor 200 may also be remote from the drilling rig 100
   and is connected to the drilling rig 100 through a remote
15 or telecommunications method such as Wi-Fi, Ethernet,
   Internet, wireless bus technology, optical fibre or Mobile
   phone technologies.
        With reference to Figure 5, there is illustrated the
20 depth of the drill string 102 for an embodiment of each of
   the processes as outlined in Figure 3. In this embodiment,
   the processor 200 and the drill rig controller 204 moves
   the position of the drill string 102 in and out of the
   hole based on the procedure    (400 to 410) currently
25 executed by the processor 200.
        In the stages of detecting a surface, the drill rig
   100 is positioned over a surface and uses the drill string
   to locate the surface   (400).  As there is a small distance
30 between the deck of the drill rig 100 and the surface, the
   drill string is slowly lowered as described herein to find
   the surface and record its location so as to ascertain the
   depth of the hole once the drilling is complete.
35      Once the surface is detected, the collaring procedure
    (402) is executed. In the collaring procedure, the drill
   string is penetrated into the surface and repeatedly

                                20
   retracted and penetrated into the surface in order to form
   a stable collar. This repeated penetration and retraction
   of the drill string assist in the construction of the
   collar 412 from the debris retrieved from the drilling
 5 operation.
       The collar 412 is particularly useful in some
   embodiments of drilling procedures as the collar assists
   in stabilising the entrance of hole that is being drilled.
10 By forming the collar, debris which may fall back into the
   hole during the drilling process is minimised since at
   least part of the debris formed from the drilling is used
   in the formation of the collar. Also, as the collar may
   also be packed or wet with fluids, the collar itself may
15 form a layer of crust which assist in the stabilisation of
   the entrance of the drill hole, and thereby increase the
   chances of a successful drilling operation.
       After the collaring procedure is complete, the
20 drilling procedure is initiated and the drill string is
   proceeded to penetrate into the ground to form the hole.
   At this stage, the processor 200 continues to monitor the
   variables detected from the sensor so as to keep track of
   how deep the hole is whilst also controlling the drill to
25 reach an optimal target of maximising penetration whilst
   minimising wear on the drill. Once the drill string
   approaches the target depth, the flushing procedure is
   initiated to reach the target depth. At this stage, the
   flushing procedure is similar in that the drill string
30 continues towards the target depth, but additional water
   or drilling fluids are pumped into the hole.
       Once the target depth has been reached, the reaming
   procedure is started. This procedure retrieves the drill
35 string from the bottom of the hole to the surface and back
   to the bottom of the hole. By executing this manoeuvre on
   the drill string, the hole is stabilised as the inner

                                21
   surfaces of the hole is packed and a layer of clay is
   formed. This manoeuvre may be repeated through various
   iterations based on the geology of the site.
 5     Upon the completion of the reaming procedure, the
   drill string is then retrieved from the hole and returned
   to the deck level. This thereby completes the drilling
   process for the hole allowing the drill rig to proceed to
   the next drilling operation.
10
       An advantage of using an autonomous drilling system or
   method is that at least in an embodiment, the quality of a
   drilled hole is generally of a higher quality than manual
   methods of drilling a hole. In manual methods of drilling,
15 the drilling procedure is often slow and inefficient. As
   such, operators of drills must focus on the quantity of
   holes drilled for a particular project or task. In order
   to operate effectively, operators may reduce the quality
   of any hole drilled by not ensuring the hole is stabilised
20 during the drilling process  (resulting in hole collapse),
   or by drill holes which are not of an appropriate size or
   depth. However, at least in an embodiment of the
   autonomous drilling method, the drilling procedures
   operate to consider the stability of a hole whilst
25 operating efficiently when compared with manual drilling
   procedures.
       Although not required, the embodiments described with
   reference to the Figures can be implemented as an
30 application programming interface  (API) or as a series of
   libraries for use by a developer or can be included within
   another software application, such as a terminal or
   personal computer operating system or a portable computing
   device operating system.  Generally, as program modules
35 include routines, functions, objects, components and data
   files, the skilled person will understand that the
   functionality of the software module application may be

                               22
   distributed across a number of routines, functions,
   objects, components or data files to achieve the same
   functionality.
 5       It will also be appreciated that where the methods
   and systems of the present invention are implemented by a
   computing system or partly implemented by computing
   systems then any appropriate computing system architecture
   may be utilised.  This includes stand alone computers,
10 networked computers and/or dedicated computing devices
   which may perform multiple functions, some functions being
   unrelated to the invention described herein. For example,
   the drilling rig may include computerized functions such
   as error handling, movement control or communication
15 systems which are integrated or programmed to operate with
   drilling methodologies described herein as a complete
   software package. Where the terms "computer", "computing
   system" and/or "computing device" are used, these terms
   are intended to cover any appropriate arrangement of
20 computer hardware for implementing the functionality or
   software described.
         It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art
   that numerous variations and/or modifications may be made
25 to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments
   without departing from the spirit or scope of the
   invention as broadly described.   The present embodiments
   are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
   illustrative and not restrictive.
30

                               23
   CLAIMS:
   1. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes by
   a drill rig including a drilling arrangement, comprising
 5 the step of: utilising an autonomous drilling procedure to
   control the drilling arrangement to drill the hole on
   locating the drill rig in a position where the hole is to
   be drilled.
10 2. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes in
   accordance with claim 1, wherein the drilling procedure
   comprises the step of instructing the drilling arrangement
   to drill in a manner which produces a collar around the
   hole with debris from the hole.
15
   3. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes in
   accordance with claims 1 or 2, wherein the drilling
   procedure further comprises the step of instructing the
   drilling arrangement to flush the drill hole.
20
   4. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes in
   accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein
   the drilling procedure further comprises the step of
   instructing the drilling arrangement to stabilise the
25 inner walls of the hole.
   5. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes in
   accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein
   the drilling procedure further comprises the step of
30 retracting the drilling arrangement from the ground hole.
   6. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes in
   accordance with claims 4 or 5, wherein the step of
   stabilising the inner walls of the hole includes detecting
35 fallback in the hole, and where the amount of fallback
   exceeds a pre-determined value, instructing the drilling
   arrangement to repeat any one or more drilling procedures

                               24
   in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 5.
   7. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes in
   accordance with any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the step
 5 of instructing the drilling arrangement to drill in a
   manner which produces a collar around the hole with debris
   from the hole comprises instructions to repeatedly
   penetrate and retract the drilling arrangement within the
   hole.
10
   8. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes in
   accordance with any one of claims 3 to 7, wherein the step
   of instructing the drilling arrangement to flush the drill
   hole comprises instructions to increase the flow of
15 liquids from the drilling arrangement to the drill hole.
   9. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes in
   accordance with any one of claims 4 to 8, wherein the step
   of instructing the drilling arrangement to stabilise the
20 inner walls of the hole comprises instructions to
   repeatedly penetrate and retract the drilling arrangement
   within the hole.
   10. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
25 in accordance with any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein statuses relating to the drilling arrangement are
   monitored by a processor.
   11. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
30 in accordance with claim 10, wherein the statuses relating
   to the drilling arrangement includes drill rotation speed,
   rotation pressure, bit air pressure, pull down speed, pull
   down pressure, depth sensor, air pressure, fluid flow rate
   or any combination thereof.
35

                                25
   12. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein statuses relating to the drill rig are monitored
   by a processor.
 5
   13. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claim 12, wherein the statuses includes
   the position of the drill rig and the initialisation
   status.
10
   14. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the
   statuses are retrieved by at least one sensor, the sensor
   being in communication with the processor.
15
   15. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the processor selects steps to instruct the
   drilling arrangement based on the statuses relating to at
20 least one of the drilling arrangement and/or at least one
   of the statuses relating to the drill rig.
   16. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claim 15, wherein the processor
25 instructs the drilling arrangement to manoeuvre the
   drilling arrangement relative to the desired location of
   the ground hole.
   17. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
30 in accordance with claims 15 or 16, wherein the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the pull down
   rate of the drilling arrangement.
   18. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
35 in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the
   processor instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the
   pull up rate of the drilling arrangement.

                                26
   19. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein the
   processor instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the
 5 rotation speed of the drilling arrangement.
   20. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 19, wherein the
   processor instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the
10 bit air pressure of the drilling arrangement.
   21. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 20, wherein the
   processor instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the
15 liquid flow rate of the drilling arrangement.
   22. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 21, wherein the
   processor instructs the drilling arrangement to meet a
20 determined target by controlling the pull up rate, pull
   down rate, rotation speed, bit air pressure, liquid flow
   rate or any combination thereof.
   23. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
25 in accordance with any one of claims 15 to 22, wherein the
   processor instructs the drilling arrangement to meet a
   determined target by manoeuvring the drilling arrangement.
   24. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
30 in accordance with claims 22 or 23, wherein the determined
   target is to drill a hole of a predetermined depth.
   25. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claim 24, wherein the determined target
35 is to maximise penetration rates whilst minimising wear on
   the drill arrangement.

                                27
   26. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein the
   determined target is to maintain a stable collar.
 5 27. A system for autonomous drilling of ground holes by a
   drill rig including a drilling arrangement, comprising:
   - a processor arranged to process an autonomous drilling
   procedure to control the drilling arrangement to drill the
   hole upon locating the drill rig in a position where the
10 hole is to be drilled.
   28. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claim 27, wherein the drilling
   procedure comprises a module arranged to instruct the
15 drilling arrangement to drill in a manner which produces a
   collar around the hole with debris from the hole.
   29. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claims 27 or 28, wherein the drilling
20 procedure further comprises a module arranged to instruct
   the drilling arrangement to flush the drill hole.
   30. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 27 to 29, wherein the
25 drilling procedure further comprises a module arranged to
   instruct the drilling arrangement to stabilise the inner
   walls of the hole.
   31. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
30 in accordance with any one of claims 27 to 30, wherein the
   drilling procedure further comprises a module arranged to
   retract the drilling arrangement from the ground hole.
   32. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
35 in accordance with claims 30 or 31, wherein the module is
   arranged to stabilise the inner walls of the hole includes
   detecting fallback in the hole, and where the amount of

                               28
   fallback exceeds a pre-determined value, instructing the
   drilling arrangement to repeat any one or more drilling
   procedures in accordance with any one of claims 27 to 31.
 5 33. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 28 to 32, wherein the
   module is arranged to instruct the drilling arrangement to
   drill in a manner which produces a collar around the hole
   with debris from the hole comprises instructions to
10 repeatedly penetrate and retract the drilling arrangement
   within the hole.
   34. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 29 to 33, wherein the
15 module is arranged to instruct the drilling arrangement to
   flush the drill hole comprises instructions to increase
   the flow of liquids from the drilling arrangement to the
   drill hole.
20 35. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 30 to 34, wherein the
   module is arranged to instruct the drilling arrangement to
   stabilise the inner walls of the hole comprises
   instructions to repeatedly penetrate and retract the
25 drilling arrangement within the hole.
   36. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 27 to 35, wherein
   statuses relating to the drilling arrangement are
30 monitored by a processor.
   37. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claim 36, wherein the statuses relating
   to the drilling arrangement includes drill rotation speed,
35 rotation pressure, bit air pressure, pull down speed, pull
   down pressure, depth sensor, air pressure, fluid flow rate
   or any combination thereof.

                                29
   38. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 27 to 37, wherein
   statuses relating to the drill rig are monitored by a
 5 processor.
   39. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claim 38, wherein the statuses includes
   the position of the drill rig and the initialisation
10 status.
   40. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 36 to 39, wherein the
   statuses are retrieved by at least one sensor, the sensor
15 being in communication with the processor.
   41. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of the claims 27 to 40, wherein
   the processor selects steps to instruct the drilling
20 arrangement based on the statuses relating to at least one
   of the drilling arrangement and/or at least one of the
   statuses relating to the drill rig.
   42. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
25 in accordance with claim 41, wherein the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to manoeuvre the
   drilling arrangement relative to the desired location of
   the ground hole.
30 43. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claims 41 or 42, wherein the processor
   instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the pull down
   rate of the drilling arrangement.
35 44. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 41 to 43, wherein the
   processor instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the

                                30
   pull up rate of the drilling arrangement.
   45. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 41 to 44, wherein the
 5 processor instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the
   rotation speed of the drilling arrangement.
   46. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 41 to 45, wherein the
10 processor instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the
   bit air pressure of the drilling arrangement.
   47. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 41 to 46, wherein the
15 processor instructs the drilling arrangement to vary the
   liquid flow rate of the drilling arrangement.
   48. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 41 to 47, wherein the
20 processor instructs the drilling arrangement to meet a
   determined target by controlling the pull up rate, pull
   down rate, rotation speed, bit air pressure, liquid flow
   rate or any combination thereof.
25 49. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 41 to 48, wherein the
   processor instructs the drilling arrangement to meet a
   determined target by manoeuvring the drilling arrangement.
30 50. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with claims 48 or 49, wherein the determined
   target is to drill a hole of a predetermined depth.
   51. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
35 in accordance with claim 50, wherein the determined target
   is to maximise penetration rates whilst minimising wear on
   the drill arrangement.

                                31
   52. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   in accordance with any one of claims 48 to 51, wherein the
   determined target is to maintain a stable collar.
 5
   53. A computer program comprising at least one instruction
   for controlling a computer system to implement a method in
   any one of claims 1 to 26.
10 54. A computer readable medium providing a computer
   program in accordance with claim 53.
   55. Transmitting or receiving a data signal including the
   program code of claim 53.
15
   56. A method for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   substantially as herein described with reference to the
   accompanying drawings.
20 57. A system for the autonomous drilling of ground holes
   substantially as herein described with reference to the
   accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
              3/7
<removed-date>         (300)
                            hello
<removed-apn>
                    (302)
                    (304)
                    (306)
                    (308)
                    (310)

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
