A mattress cover includes a top sheet and a lower sheet. The lower sheet is provided
with hemmed edges for fitting over a mattress and the top sheet is attached by
stitching to the lower sheet. Ventilation slots are provided at the foot portion of the
mattress cover.

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>1
- There is 1 page of Description only

 Description of the easy sheet.
The Easy Sheet will consist of a bottom sheet with elastic sown into the
Lower edges of the sheet to enable the sheet to fit over the mattress and
The hemmed lower edges to pull under the mattress. A top sheet will be
attached to the lower sheet (by means of stitching). The attachment points
Of the top sheet to the bottom sheet will be, the full length of the foot end
Or base of the bottom sheet and around the corners for 250mm, the top sheet
will be stitched on to the lower sheet 5mm above the elastic hem line.
At the foot end of the sheet three 200mm long by 50mm deep ventilation slots
will be cut out and hemmed to stop material from tearing.
The sheet will be made to fit all known mattress sizes, ie. Children's mattresses
Single & king single, double, queen and king size mattresses. The ventilation
Slots at the foot of the sheet will eliminate the billowing effect when the sheet
Is being thrown over the mattress, will eliminate the sheet ballooning full of
Water when being washed, will eliminate the parachute effect when drying
Either naturally or in a spin dryer and will give better ventilation in the event
Of a child turning around and having their head at the foot of the bed.
The Easy Sheet is designed to cut down the time it takes one or two persons
To make a bed, will make identifying the proper way the sheet should go
Onto the bed, ie. Right side up and right way around, when on the mattress
the overhang of the sheet will be exactly the same on either side and the head
of the sheet will always be in the right place.

