                                             ABSTRACT
An agricultural storage system is provided. The agricultural storage system comprises an
agricultural storage bin for storing agricultural products therein. At least a mixed air flow fan is
connected to the agricultural storage bin for generating an air flow and air pressure and providing
the same to the agricultural storage bin.

                 5/5
                      104
                  114
             112
                          108
106
 105
    Figure 3

       MIXED AIR FLOW FAN FOR AERATING AN AGRICULTURAL STORAGE BIN
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
This application claims priority from Canadian Application No. 2,952,411 filed on 19 December
2016, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein by this reference.
The present invention relates to aeration of agricultural storage bins, and more particularly, to a
mixed air flow fan for aerating an agricultural storage bin.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Present-day agricultural storage bins are not only used for storage of grains, cereals and other
agricultural products but also for assisting in drying, cooling, heating, and pest control of the
contained product by employing aeration fans connected thereto. The aeration fans are capable of
supplying sufficient air pressure and air flow to the agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling,
heating, and pest control.
There are currently four fan types employed for supplying air to agricultural storage bins: high
speed centrifugal fans; low speed centrifugal fans; axial fans; and, inline centrifugal fans.
Unfortunately, while these fan types are capable of supplying sufficient air pressure and air flow
to the agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control, they typically lack
efficiency at the required combination of air pressure and air flow. With increasing energy costs,
efficiency of the aeration fans becomes increasingly important in order to control overall
operating expenses. This is especially true in the case of the 'traditional' inline centrifugal design
where operational efficiencies are substantially lower than other designs. However, the utilization
of the mixed flow design methodology in this application dramatically improves overall
efficiency and better aligns those efficiencies with other aeration fan designs.
It is desirable to provide an air flow fan for aerating an agricultural storage bin that is capable of
                                                    I

supplying sufficient air pressure and air flow to the agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling,
heating, and pest control with substantially increased efficiency.
It is also desirable to provide a mixed air flow fan for aerating an agricultural storage bin that is
capable of supplying a required combination of air pressure and air flow to the agricultural
storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control with substantially increased efficiency.
It is also desirable to provide an air flow fan for aerating an agricultural storage bin that is
capable of supplying a required combination of air pressure and air flow to the agricultural
storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control with substantially increased efficiency
by simply replacing the centrifugal rotor of an existing inline centrifugal fan with a mixed air
flow rotor.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
Accordingly, one object of the present invention is to provide an air flow fan for aerating an
agricultural storage bin that is capable of supplying sufficient air pressure and air flow to the
agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control with substantially increased
efficiency.
Another object of the present invention is to provide a mixed air flow fan for aerating an
agricultural storage bin that is capable of supplying a required combination of air pressure and air
flow to the agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control with
substantially increased efficiency.
Another object of the present invention is to provide an air flow fan for aerating an agricultural
storage bin that is capable of supplying a required combination of air pressure and air flow to the
agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control with substantially increased
efficiency by simply replacing the centrifugal rotor of an existing inline centrifugal fan with a
mixed air flow rotor.
                                                    2

According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided an agricultural storage system.
The agricultural storage system comprises an agricultural storage bin for storing agricultural
products therein. At least a mixed air flow fan is connected to the agricultural storage bin for
generating an air flow and air pressure and providing the same to the agricultural storage bin.
According to the aspect of the present invention, there is provided an agricultural storage system.
The agricultural storage system comprises an agricultural storage bin for storing agricultural
products therein. At least a mixed air flow fan is connected to the agricultural storage bin for
generating an air flow and air pressure and providing the same to the agricultural storage bin. The
mixed air flow fan comprises an air inlet for receiving ambient air. A mixed air flow rotor of the
mixed air flow fan comprises an angled shroud and hub plates for reducing an incidence angle of
the incoming ambient air. The mixed air flow rotor comprises blades that are backward curved
combined with a twist to assist axial movement of the air. The mixed air flow fan comprises a
cone shaped housing and stator blades disposed therein.
According to the aspect of the present invention, there is provided an agricultural storage system.
The agricultural storage system comprises an agricultural storage bin for storing agricultural
products therein. At least a mixed air flow fan is connected to the agricultural storage bin for
generating an air flow and air pressure and providing the same to the agricultural storage bin. The
mixed air flow fan comprises a mixed air flow rotor disposed in a housing designed for an inline
centrifugal fan.
The advantage of the present invention is that it provides an air flow fan for aerating an
agricultural storage bin that is capable of supplying sufficient air pressure and air flow to the
agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control with substantially increased
efficiency.
A further advantage of the present invention is that it provides a mixed air flow fan for aerating
an agricultural storage bin that is capable of supplying a required combination of air pressure and
air flow to the agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control with
substantially increased efficiency.
                                                   3

A further advantage of the present invention is that it provides an air flow fan for aerating an
agricultural storage bin that is capable of supplying a required combination of air pressure and air
flow to the agricultural storage bins for drying, cooling, heating, and pest control with
substantially increased efficiency by simply replacing the centrifugal rotor of an existing inline
centrifugal fan with a mixed air flow rotor.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
A preferred embodiment of the present invention is described below with reference to the
accompanying drawings, in which:
        Figures la and lb are simplified block diagrams illustrating in cross sectional views an
        agricultural storage system according to a preferred embodiment of the invention;
        Figure 2a is a simplified block diagram illustrating in a cross sectional view an example
        implementation of a mixed air flow fan of the agricultural storage system according to a
        preferred embodiment of the invention;
        Figures 2b and 2c are simplified block diagrams illustrating in a front view and a cross
        sectional view, respectively an example implementation of the mixed air flow fan of the
        agricultural storage system according to a preferred embodiment of the invention; and,
        Figure 3 is a simplified block diagram illustrating in a perspective view partially in ghost
        an example retrofit implementation of the mixed air flow fan of the agricultural storage
        system according to a preferred embodiment of the invention.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as
commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs.
                                                   4

Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used
in the practice or testing of the present invention, the preferred methods and materials are now
described.
Referring to Figures la and Ib, an agricultural storage system 100 according to a preferred
embodiment of the invention is provided. The agricultural storage system comprises an
agricultural storage bin 102 for storing agricultural products 12 such as, for example, grains and
cereals, therein. The agricultural storage bin 102 may have a flat bottom - as illustrated - or a
hopper bottom. Conduit 110, for example, tubing made of a sheet metal such as aluminum or
steel, is connected to the agricultural storage bin 102 for providing an air flow and air pressure to
the agricultural storage bin 102, as indicated by the block arrow. Outlet 108 of mixed air flow fan
 104 is connected to the conduit 110. The mixed air flow fan 104 receives ambient air 10 via air
inlet 106, as indicated by the block arrow, generates the required combination of air pressure and
air flow, and provides the same via the air outlet 108 to the conduit 110 for provision to the
agricultural storage bin 102. Alternatively, the mixed air flow fan 104 is directly mounted to the
agricultural storage bin 102, as illustrated in Figure lb. Optionally, a plurality of conduits 110
and/or mixed air flow fans 104 are connected to the agricultural storage bin 102. Further
optionally, devices 111 for processing the air such as, for example, drying, heating, and adding a
pesticide, prior provision to the agricultural storage bin 102, are interposed between the mixed air
flow fan 104 and the agricultural storage bin 102. The devices 111 for processing the air may be
directly connected to the mixed air flow fan 104 and the agricultural storage bin 102 or via
conduits 110.
Figure 2a illustrates an example implementation of the mixed air flow fan 104 comprising mixed
air flow rotor 112 rotatable movable about axis 105 disposed in housing 114. The mixed air flow
rotor 112 comprises angled shroud 116 and hub plates 118 that reduce the incidence angle of the
incoming air. The blades 120 are backward curved combined with a twist to assist axial
movement of the air. The mixed air flow rotor 112 is designed to increase static pressure radially
while also effectively increasing air velocity as the air moves axially through the rotor, as
indicated by the streamlines illustrating the air flow, thus producing a substantially axial air flow
having sufficient static pressure at the outlet 108. The mixed air flow rotor design further reduces
                                                    5

the pressure losses inherent in the incline centrifugal rotor design by efficiently converting swirl
into axial air flow. Optionally, pressure losses in the air flow are further reduced by providing a
cone shaped housing 114 and/or disposing stator blades 122 on the inside of the housing 114 to
direct the air flow.
The aeration of agricultural storage bins 102 requires a combination of relatively high air flow
and relatively high static air pressure in order to quickly and efficiently remove moisture.
However, the static air pressure requirements are, typically, too low for an efficient centrifugal
fan design and the relative air flow requirements are, typically, too low for an efficient axial fan
design.
The mixed air flow fan 104 is adapted for the aeration of agricultural storage bins 102 using a
standard fan design techniques to meet the combination of the required air flow and static air
pressure by determining parameters such as: blade shape; blade angle; blade size; shroud size;
hub size; shroud angle; hub angle; rotor diameter; and, inlet diameter, as illustrated for an
example implementation in Figures 2b and 2c.
The mixed air flow fan 104 has been implemented to meet the following four combinations of
the required air flow and static air pressure for the aeration of agricultural storage bins 102 at
their best Efficiency Point (BEP):
Power (HP)             Static Air Pressure (in. wc)      Air Flow (CFM)
3                                    4                       3100
5                                    6                       4200
7.5                                  8                       4455
 10                                 10                       5120
Table 1
The mixed air flow fan 104 significantly reduces the energy required to achieve the same level of
drying for the same volume of stored agricultural product 12 in the agricultural storage bin 102
                                                    6

compared to the other air fan designs discussed hereinabove. Therefore, a greater air flow volume
and accordingly a greater drying effect of the stored agricultural product 12 can be achieved with
the same energy consumption, or the energy consumption is decreased for the same drying effect
of the same volume of the stored agricultural product 12.
Optionally, the mixed air flow fan 104 is implemented by simply replacing the centrifugal rotor
of an existing inline centrifugal fan with a mixed air flow rotor 112 which is adapted to fit into
the existing housing 114 of the inline centrifugal fan, as illustrated in Figure 3, providing - while
somewhat less efficient than a specifically designed combination of mixed air flow rotor and
mixed air flow housing - a simple retrofit solution for improving the efficiency of an existing
agricultural storage bin aeration system having an inline centrifugal fan.
The present invention has been described herein with regard to preferred embodiments. However,
it will be obvious to persons skilled in the art that a number of variations and modifications can
be made without departing from the scope of the invention as described herein.
                                                    7

THE EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION IN WHICH AN EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY
OR PRIVILEGE IS CLAIMED ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS:
 1. An agricultural storage system comprising:
an agricultural storage bin for storing agricultural products therein; and,
at least a mixed air flow fan connected to the agricultural storage bin for generating an air flow
and air pressure and providing the same to the agricultural storage bin.
2. The agricultural storage system according to claim 1 wherein the mixed air flow fan comprises
an air inlet for receiving ambient air.
3. The agricultural storage system according to claim 2 wherein a mixed air flow rotor of the
mixed air flow fan comprises an angled shroud and hub plates for reducing an incidence angle of
the incoming ambient air.
4. The agricultural storage system according to claim 3 wherein the mixed air flow rotor
comprises blades that are backward curved combined with a twist to assist axial movement of the
air.
5. The agricultural storage system according to claim 4 wherein the mixed air flow fan comprises
a cone shaped housing.
6. The agricultural storage system according to claim 5 wherein the mixed air flow fan comprises
stator blades.
7. The agricultural storage system according to claim 1 wherein the mixed air flow fan comprises
a mixed air flow rotor disposed in a housing designed for an inline centrifugal fan.
                                                   8

                                             1/5
<removed-date>
                                                   100
                                       102
<removed-apn>
                                             12
                10
              106    104   108   110
                                             111
              Figure 1a

                                        2/5
<removed-date>
                                              100
                                  102
<removed-apn>
                                        12
               10
                                  108
                            104
                      106
              Figure 1b

                                    3/5
<removed-date>
                                                  104
                           112     114
                    118                   122
              116
                                                 108
<removed-apn>
        106
        10
                                                       105
                                                120
                             122
               Figure 2a

                          4/5
<removed-date>
                 106            106
<removed-apn>
              Figure 2b         Figure 2c

                                 5/5
<removed-date>                            104
                                 114
                           112
                                             108
              106
<removed-apn>
              105
                Figure 3

