        ABSTRACT
         In one aspect, the invention provides a method for the provision of a profile,
        comprising the steps of, receiving information relevant to an individual, formatting the
        information into a format suitable for use in an identification situation, and storing the
        information in the format.
10336306 1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                        1
            A SYSTEM, METHOD, COMPUTER PROGRAM AND DATA SIGNAL FOR THE
                                 PROVISION OF A PROFILE OF IDENTIFICATION DATA.
        Technical Field
        [0001] The present invention relates to a system, method, computer program and
        data signal for the provision of a profile of identification data. Embodiments of the
        invention find specific, but not exclusive, use in the identification of individuals,
        through the use of, for example, biometric data. A more specific embodiment finds
        use in the identification of individuals for the purpose of granting access to electronic
        systems, such as databases, computing systems and computer controlled devices.
        Background Art
        [0002A] This application is a divisional of AU 2013204989 the entire content of which
        as originally filed is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Similarly, the contents of
        AU 2012904989 and AU 2013204965 both being in relation to inventions by the
        current inventor are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
        [0002B] The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
        understanding               of the present invention only. The    discussion    is  not  an
        acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of
        the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
        [0003] There is an increasing need to correctly and accurately identify individuals, for
        a variety of financial, personal, and legal reasons. That is, the ubiquitous use of
        computing systems in all aspects of life necessitates the need to develop systems
        and methods that provide the ability to accurately identify individuals, particularly
        when such individuals wish to interact with or use computing systems.
        [0004] Simultaneously, the growing amount of data regarding every individual and the
        growing amount of data captured about individuals without their direct knowledge
        (e.g. closed circuit TV images), requires such identification systems and methods to
        balance the need to identify the individual with the individual's right to keep their
        personal information private and secure.
        [0005] In other words, there is a strong need to develop systems and methods that
        securely encrypt or otherwise limit access to personal information, while concurrently
        providing the individual with an easy and intuitive way of accessing such data for
        identification and transactional purposes.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                        2
         [0006] It is against this background that embodiments of the present invention have
         been developed.
        Summary of Invention
        [0007] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for delivering a
        package by robotic device, comprising the steps of,
             receiving information relevant to an individual nominated to receive a package,
        formatting the information into a format suitable for use in an identification situation,
        and storing the information in the format;
             dispatching the robotic device with the package to the location of the individual;
             instructing the robotic device to verify the identity of the individual from a secure
        distance from the individual;
             identifying the individual for authentication from the secure distance by accessing
        the stored information relevant to the individual and comparing it with information
        provided by the individual in the identification situation; and
        authenticating the individual if the individual is nominated to receive the package;
             delivering the package to the individual via the robotic device only if the individual
        is authenticated.
        [0007A] In another aspect there is provided a method for delivering a package by
        robotic device, comprising the steps of:
              receiving information relevant to an individual nominated to receive a package,
        formatting the information into a format suitable for use in an identification situation,
        and storing the information in the format;
              dispatching the robotic device with the package to the location of the individual
        nominated to receive the package;
             instructing the robotic device to verify the identity of the individual from a secure
        distance from the individual;
                     wherein before the robotic device arrives at the location of the individual, an
             enquiry is sent to the individual asking for confirmation that the individual is
             available for an identification situation in order to receive the package.
        [0007B] In another aspect there is provided a package delivery system, comprising:
        a robotic device operative to receive:
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                               3
                       (i) access to information relevant to an individual nominated to receive a
        package, the information being accessible in a format suitable for use in an identification
        situation; and
                       (ii) a first location of the individual nominated to receive a package and
        instructions to move toward the first location;
             (iii)          instructions to verify the identity of the individual from a secure distance
        from the individual;
                       a package associated with the robotic device, the package being receivable if
        the individual is authenticated as the individual nominated to receive the package;
        wherein the robotic device is further operative to receive, after beginning to move
         toward the first location and prior to reaching the first location a second location
         based at least in part on a location of a the individual nominated to receive the
         package, and instructions to move toward the second location instead of continuing to
         move toward the first location.
         [0008] In one embodiment, the information includes personal information.
         [0009] In one embodiment, the information includes biometric information.
         [0010] In one embodiment, the identification situation results in access to a physical
         space.
         [0011] Also described is a system for the provision of a profile, comprising a database
         arranged to receiving information relevant to an individual, a processor arranged to
        format the information into a format suitable for use in an identification situation,
        wherein the information is stored in the format in the database.
         [0012] Also described is a computer program including at least one command, which,
        when executed on a computing system, is arranged to perform the method steps in
         accordance with the first aspect of the invention.
         [0013] Also described is a computer readable medium incorporating a computer
         program in accordance with the third aspect of the invention.
         [0014] Also described is a data signal encoding at least one command and being
         arranged to be receivable by at least one computing device, wherein, when the
         encoded command is executed on the computing system, the computing system
         performs the method steps in accordance with the first aspect of the invention.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     4
        Brief Description of the Drawings
        [0015] Further features are more fully described in the following description of several
        non-limiting embodiments. This description is included solely for the purposes of
        exemplifying the embodiments of present invention. It should not be understood as a
        restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the invention as set out
        above. The description will be made with reference to the accompanying drawings in
        which:
        Figure 1 is an example computing system which is capable of operating a device,
        system, method and/or computer program in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 2 is an example profile 'life line' in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 3 is an example of a hierarchy of different components within a profile account
        in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 4 is a network computing environment utilisable to operate an embodiment;
        Figure 5 is a flowchart depicting a method for seeding a profile account in accordance
        with an embodiment;
        Figure 6 depicts an example capture device in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 7 depicts another example capture device in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figures 8a and 8b are diagrams depicting an example system of a profile account in
        accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 9 is a flowchart depicting a capturing process in accordance with an
        embodiment;
        Figure 10 is a flowchart depicting a process for a typical biometric system in
        accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 11 is a diagram depicting a verification process in accordance with an
        embodiment;
        Figure 12 is a flowchart depicting a verification process in accordance with an
        embodiment;
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    5
        Figure 13 is an example input form in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 14 is an anonymisation process in accordance with an embodiment:
        Figure 15 is a diagram illustrating a virtual verification process in accordance with an
        embodiment;
        Figure 16 is a diagram illustrating a correlation process in accordance with an
        embodiment;
        Figure 17 is a diagram illustrating a verification process in accordance with an
        embodiment;
        Figure 18 is a flowchart depicting an identification process in accordance with an
        embodiment;
        Figure 19 is a diagram illustrating another example of a verification process in
        accordance with an embodiment ;
        Figures 20 to 23 are authentication, identification, decrypting processes in
        accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 24 is an example use of an embodiment;
        Figures 25 to 27 are example processes in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figures 28 to 32 are example data structures in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figures 33 to 35 are example process flows in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figures 36 to 38 are example string formations in accordance with an embodiment;
        Figure 39 is a recognition process flow in accordance with an embodiment of the
        invention;
        Figures 41 to 57 are example eLicence process flows in accordance with an
        embodiment; and
        Figure 58 is an hourglass figure depicting a process flow for an embodiment.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                       6
        Description of Embodiments
        General Overview
        [0016] The present invention relates generally to a system, method, computer
        program and data signal for the provision of a profile of identification data.
        Embodiments of the invention find specific, but not exclusive, use in the identification
        of individuals. A more specific embodiment finds use in the identification of individuals
        for the purpose of granting access to electronic systems, such as databases,
        computing systems and computer controlled devices.
        [0017] In more detail, two embodiments are described.
        [0018] One embodiment refers to the term "eLicence" (eL). This type of verification
        requires the biometrics/particulars of the user to be verified (or registered) by a
        recognized authority.
        [0019] Another embodiment is termed a Profile Account, and may or may not be
        verified (or registered) by a recognized authority.
        [0020] An eL can become a Profile Account, and vice versa. However, an eL cannot
        become an unofficial Profile Account since once official it remains official, e.g. the
        biometrics registered at a CRRR (Credible, Reputable, Responsible, Reliable party)
        are retained unless deleted. Although, an eL may be demoted to an unofficial Profile
        Account status if an eL is suspended, revoked or the owner disqualified, thus losing
        its official privileges.
        [0021]           An       eL requires an owner   to register their biometrics/recognition
        features/particulars with a CRRR party (e.g. a motor registry or Department of Motor
        Vehicles). A Profile Account owner is not required to do this but can if they wish to
        obtain the privileges that come with registering.
        [0022] A Profile Account typically employs many-factor authentication (or recognition),
        whereas an eL may only use a few, or as little as one. An eL is not required to
        undertake/pursue a Profile Account's many-factor authentication.
        [0023] An eL owner may utilize a third party verification/authentication service
        provider, e.g. a Certificate Authority, or BIOCA, in order to validate their PKI keys, for
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   7
        example, during or for transactions. A Profile Account owner is not required to utilize
        such a third party.
        [0024] Both embodiments are operated utilizing a computing system, such as the
        computing system shown at Figure 1.
        [0025] In Figure 1 there is shown a schematic diagram of a computing system, which
        in this embodiment is a server 100 suitable for use with an embodiment of the present
        invention. The server 100 may be used to execute application and/or system services
        such as a system and method for the provision of biometric data in accordance with
        an embodiment of the present invention.
        [0026] With reference to Figure 1, the server 100 may comprise suitable components
        necessary to receive, store and execute appropriate computer instructions. The
        components may include a processor 102, read only memory (ROM) 104, random
        access memory (RAM) 106, an input/output devices such as disc drives 108, remote
        or connected input devices 110 (such as a mobile computing device, a smartphone or
        a 'desktop' personal computer), and one or more communications link(s) 114.
        [0027] The server 100 includes instructions that may be installed in ROM 104, RAM
         106 or disc drives 112 and may be executed by the processor 102. There may be
        provided a plurality of communication links 114 which may variously connect to one
        or more computing devices 110 such as servers, personal computers, terminals,
        wireless or handheld computing devices, or mobile communication devices such as a
        mobile (cell) telephone. At least one of a plurality of communications link 114 may be
        connected to an external computing network through a telecommunications network.
        [0028] In one particular embodiment the device may include a database 116 which
        may reside on the storage device 112. It will be understood that the database may
        reside on any suitable storage device, which may encompass solid state drives, hard
        disc drives, optical drives or magnetic tape drives. The database 116 may reside on a
        single physical storage device or may be spread across multiple storage devices.
        [0029] The server 100 includes a suitable operating system 118 which may also
        reside on a storage device or in the ROM of the server 100. The operating system is
        arranged to interact with the database and with one or more computer programs to
        cause the server to carry out the steps, functions and/or procedures in accordance
        with the embodiments of the invention described herein.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    8
        [0030] Broadly, in an embodiment, the invention relates to a computing method and
        system arranged to interact with one or more remote devices via a communications
        network. The remote devices may take the form of computing devices as described
        above, but may also take the form of robotic devices, as will be described in more
        detail later.
        [0031] The system, in one embodiment, utilises a server including a database
        arranged to contain information regarding one or more profile accounts. The
        database is arranged to receive the information via the communications network from
        the one or more remote devices and to subsequently create, refine and hold profile
        accounts.
        [0032] Other aspects of the broad inventive concept relate to a corresponding
        method, computer program, computer readable media and data signal. The method
        facilitates the transfer of information, and in particular biometric information, to be
        sent between one or more remote devices and one or more databases, as is
        described below in more detail.
        Profile Account
        [0033] Referring to Figure 2, there is shown the 'life line' of an embodiment of the
        present invention. From hereonin, reference will be made to a 'Profile Account'. The
        term 'Profile Account' when used in the context of the present specification, will be
        understood to be a digital representation, signature and/or 'key' of an individual
        (person). That is, a profile account is a dynamic, many-factor, digital representation of
        an analog, 'in-the-flesh' entity.
        [0034] A Profile Account generally begins in a basic form, and requires a series of
        initial manual, deliberate captures to build/refine the Profile Account. Once an
        acceptable amount of information has been captured to create a basic, robust
        account, the Profile Account proceeds to a second, semi-automated or fully
        automated stage, where automatic captures and contributions are constantly added
        to further build and refine the Profile Account.
        [0035] Further, captures and other contributory information typically comprise a
        mixture of private or personal (Activity) Profiles along with public (Activity) Profiles.
        The public captures are produced, received and/or contributed throughout the lifetime
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     9
        of the profile account. That is, as a Profile Account advances, and as the Profile
        Account entity engages in (Activity) Profile lessons.
        [0036] Referring to Figure 3, there is shown a Profile Account comprising two primary
        parts being 'Profiles' and 'Activity Profiles'.
        [0037] Activity Profiles comprise either a single component or multiple components.
        Components may be considered as a tangible or intangible element, thing, artefact,
        object, entity, person or even sound. Essentially, anything which constitutes
        information that is utilizable to identify a person. Thus, a profile may contain
        information that is unique and associated with a person, but that is not intrinsically
        part of the physical person. This type of identification information includes information
        that most people would traditionally use to identify and verify an individual (e.g. name,
        address, government-assigned identification numbers such as a driver's license
        number, etc.).
        [0038] The identification information could further include objects and/or artefacts that
        could also be used (tangentially) to help in the verification of an individual's identity.
        For example, pieces of clothing, jewellery, or other worn items can be included in
        identification information, as they may not be determinative, in and of themselves, of
        the identity of a person, but taken in combination with other information, provide
        information that becomes part of a broader profile.
        [0039] In one example, the Profile may be a capture (i.e. a multi-dimensional scan) of
        a hairclip. The capture may be effected by a capture device such as a capture device
        described in paragraph [0056] below.
        [0040] Moreover, the components may also include information that identifies a
        physical characteristic or trait of a person. That is, the components may include
        capturing physical characteristics of a person, including gestures, movements, etc.
        [0041] Therefore, Profiles contain one or more components digitally represented as
        data information, where each component represents data relevant to a specific
        (defined) moment in time. Thus, Profiles may be considered as a stationary
        component or a 'snapshot' of a component.
        [0042] For example, where the Profile includes physical characteristics of a person,
        the Profile may include an image capture of the person's hand during a single time
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    10
        moment, in a given anatomical position, structure or pose it may have been in during
        that capture (e.g. an open/closed fist, spread fingers, thumb up/down, and so on).
        [0043] Activity Profiles, in contrast, contain more Profiles 'in motion' or 'changing' over
        multiple time units or moments.
        [0044] For example, an Activity Profile may be a hand changing from a closed to an
        open fist (i.e. anatomical extension of the fingers), or the hand's fingers (or digits)
        moving from an adducted to an abducted position (i.e. fingers spreading apart, away
        from the centreline of the hand).
        [0045] The abovementioned Profiles are managed, in one embodiment, by a Profile
        Account App (PAA) which, in the embodiment described herein, is installed or
        accessed via an individual persons' mobile or fixed computing device. An individual's
        PAA allows their captured data and information to be stored on the aforementioned
        mobile or fixed computing device.
        [0046] Further, the PAA also incorporates an individual's (account holder) interface
        feature in order for the individual to manage aspects of their Profile Account.
        [0047] The PAA may include further functionality, in the form of a Profile Recognition
        App (PRA). It will be understood that in the embodiment described herein, the PAA
        and PRA are two functions of a single software application. However, in other
        embodiments, the PAA and PRA may be separate applications which operate on
        separate computing systems. The PAA and/or PRA also incorporates a user interface
        arranged to manage the PRA's (computer software or program) settings.
        [0048] In one embodiment, the two components or software applications, namely the
        PAA and the PRA, may reside on a single device (and may form part of the same
        code), but may be arranged to operate independently of each other. For example, if
        an individual's device captures a scene using the PRA, the capture data information
        is not automatically contributed to the device's (i.e. the 'contributing' part of the
        device) long-term storage, via the PAA, if the capture data information does not
        satisfy a series of 'rightful claim' 'threshold'(s) or rules (which will be described in
        more detail below). Therefore, a device which is both a capture and contributing
        device will still function as two separate devices, separated by a 'firewall', i.e. the
        'rightful claim' restrictions.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     11
        [0049] A third software application, Add-On App (or 'AOA'), is also described in more
        detail. In brief, the application is installed and/or operated on (participating) business
        devices. Further, the AOA may be combined (as an 'add-on') to the PRA for
        increased PRA functionality or (system) features such as one or more of the
        following:
             account holder
        authentications;            retail
        transaction facilities;
             generating 'tags';            tagged
        advertising;
         targeted account holder advertising or notifications; and tagged
        presence history.
        [0050] Further depicted in Figure 3 is a flowchart depicting the flow of capture data
        information (CC1 and CC2) to 'Profile Recognition App', following captures of Profiles
        and Activity Profiles (e.g. in a visual and/or audio scene) by a capture device such as
        capture device C004 in Figure 4. The PRA (running on a capture device) is the
        software application which first deals with capture data information, and also the
        software application which directs the storage of 'public' capture and/or characteristic
        data information to memory for long-term storage to enhance recognition capabilities.
        PRA also prevents 'private' capture and/or characteristic data information to be stored
        and managed.
        [0051] Furthermore depicted in Figure 3 is the 'flow' of characteristic data information
        CC3 to the 'Profile Account'. The 'Profile Account App' (PAA) contributes the
        characteristic data information onto a long-term storage device.
        [0052] Figure 4 is a block diagram illustrating a networked computing environment
        C111 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Networked computing
        environment C111 includes a plurality of computing devices interconnected through
        one or more networks C60. The one or more networks C60 allow a particular
        computing device to connect to and communicate with another computing device.
        The depicted computing devices include various (non-)mobile devices such as head
        mounted cameras and microphones C001 and C007, (e.g. worn, carried, or
        implanted) 'smart' devices (or phones) C002 and C006, computing device C003,
        security cameras and microphones C004 and C005, 'smart' fashion/ (wearable)
        health tech C008, and a computing device C100 which may be an application server.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                      12
        [0053] It will be understood that the plurality of computing devices may include other
        computing devices not explicitly shown. In some embodiments, the plurality of
        computing devices may include more than or less than the number of computing
        devices shown in Figure 3. The one or more networks C60 may include a secure
        network such as an enterprise private network, an unsecure network such as a
        wireless open network, a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), and
        the Internet. Each network of the one or more networks C60 may include hubs,
        bridges, routers, switches, and wired transmission media such as a wired network or
        direct-wired connection.
        [0054] An application server, such as application server C100, may allow a client
        (device) to download content, e.g. 'Lessons' of (Activity) Profiles, from the application
        server or to perform (remote) processing of (e.g. capture) data information instead of
        relying solely on the client device (to perform such calculations, analysis or
        processing), and assist with facilitating (virtual) verification sessions, i.e. officially
        linking or associating an applicant's 'seed' (capture and/or characteristic) data
        information to their Profile Account (PAA).
        [0055] In one example, a client downloads lessons completed by other clients. In
        general, a server may include a hardware device that acts as the host in a client
        server relationship or a software process that shares a resource with or performs
        work for one or more clients. Communication between computing devices in a client
        server relationship may be initiated by a client sending a request to the server asking
        for access to a particular resource or for particular work to be performed. The server
        may subsequently perform the actions requested and send a response back to the
        client (e.g. analysing a captured device's captured scene, then sending back any
        results).
        [0056] One embodiment of capture device C001 (or C007) includes a (head-mounted)
        camera,              microphone, network interface, processor,  and     memory,   all   in
        communication with each other. Cameras and microphones may (continuously)
        capture a scene, converting any surveillance data (in real-time) into encrypted,
        characteristic data (primarily, for pattern recognition).
        [0057] The Network interface allows capture device C001 to connect to one or more
        networks C60. The network interface may include a wireless network interface, a
        modem, and/or a wired network interface. The Processor allows capture device C001
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   13
        to execute computer readable instructions stored in memory to perform the processes
        discussed herein.
        [0058] Networked computing environment C111 may provide an ad hoc (or cloud)
        computing environment for one or more computing devices (not shown).
        [0059] In the context of the present specification, the term "wireless ad hoc network"
        refers to any type of decentralized wireless network that does not rely on a pre
        existing infrastructure. Such networks may include routers in wired networks or
        access points in managed (infrastructure) wireless networks. In the context described
        herein, each node of the ad hoc network participates in routing by forwarding data for
        other nodes, and so the determination of which nodes forward data is made
        dynamically based on the available network connectivity at any point in time.
        [0060] In one embodiment, capture device C007 captures a scene involving an
        individual (an account holder), encrypts, buffers, converts, and analyzes the scene in
        real-time, and transmits the data information to be contributed also to other
        contributing device, which may include 'smart' fashion/(wearable) health tech C008
        and/or 'smart' phone C006. In another embodiment, application server C100 is used
        as a remote contributing storage server for Profile Account data information. All of a
        client's (account holder's) devices may automatically synchronise with each other to
        ensure continuity, or most recent version, of the account holder's Profile Account data
        information. Figure 5 is a flowchart describing an embodiment of an enrollment
        process for a Profile Account. That is, the process flow outlines how an individual
        proceeds through an initial setup of the Profile Account App (PAA).
        [0061] In one embodiment, the process of Figure 5 is performed by a computing
        device such as 'smart' phone C006 in Figure 4. Other scenario permutations are
        contemplated, as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art.
        [0062] At step D2 an individual, who from hereonin will be referred to as a
        "prospective applicant" (PA) engages with the interface to obtain a Profile Account.
        [0063] At step D3 the PA is directed to a 'Registry' website on their computing device
        such as 'smart' phone C002 or C006 in Figure 4. In the context of the present
        specification, the term "registry" is a generic term that refers to an organization (such
        as a government body) that operates the appropriate technical devices, such as a
        server, a distributed computing system, a cloud service, or other computing devices
        which provide the functionality defined herein. It will be understood that the term
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  14
        "registry" is used merely for clarity purposes and is not intended to limit the broader
        inventive concept described herein. At the Registry website, the PA selects a 'create
        a new account' menu item at D4.
        [0064] Once the menu item is selected, at step D5 the PA is provided with the option
        to download the aforementioned Profile Account (e.g. PAA and/or PRA) software
        applications onto their (participating) device such as 'smart' phone C002 or C006 in
        Figure 4.
        [0065] At step D6 the PA installs the PAA/PRA on one or more of their participating
        devices. In one embodiment, one participating device may be a 'smart' device such
        as 'smart' phone C006 in Figure 4.
        [0066] At step D7 the PA enters into form fields (and/or scans onto their PAA) their
        required ID document) particulars, including their contact details (e.g. email address
        and/or phone number).
        [0067] It will be understood that the PA may cause text to be entered into the form
        fields by typing on the device or by speaking into the (or another) device (e.g. text
        dictation, using speech recognition), or by any other suitable method.
        [0068] In another embodiment, optical character recognition (OCR) technology may
        be utilised. For example, the PA may scan their ID documents and suitable OCR
        software may convert the hardcopy information into digital information.
        [0069] In one embodiment the PA uses a scanner to scan their hardcopy ID
        documents. The PA may use a dedicated scanning device, e.g. flatbed scanner, or
        their 'smart' device's camera or other input device capable of capturing an image of
        suitable resolution.
        [0070] In one embodiment, at least some aspects of the identification documents may
        be in softcopy format. For example, some national authorities may provide limited
        access to databases that contain Passport, Driver's Licence or other identification
        material in a format suitable for direct electronic data interchange (EDI). The
        information may be provided in any suitable format, such as XML (eXtensible Markup
        Language) or any other suitable format. Where ID documents are provided in a
        softcopy format, the PAA may include a function arranged to directly interface with
        such databases to acquire the required information.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                          15
        [0071] Of course, it will be understood that the term identification data includes, where
        available, biometric data information embedded or associated with the electronic
        identification documents.
        [0072] In step D8 the PA sources information from various, preferably, Credible,
        Respectable, Reliable and/or Responsible (CRRR) parties for input into their Profile
        Account (PAA) via, for example, online accounts set up with the CRRR parties.
        [0073] If softcopy data information is not obtained directly from a hardcopy ID
        document, the PA may use other methods in order to obtain the information. Two
        example methods include:
        (i)              the PA receives softcopy data information transmitted to the PA's
                         device while the PA is physically present at the ID document's issuing body's
                         facility; and/or
        (ii)             by the PA logging onto the PA's customer online account (hosted
                         and/or provided by the issuing body), with the PA then choosing to cause
                         softcopy data information of the PA's to be communicated to the PA's device
                         from one or more computing devices owned and/or operated by the issuing
                         body (e.g. a remotely located central server such as C100 in Figure 4).
        [0074] It will be understood that the PA may obtain this softcopy data information via
        their online account in any number of ways. By way of example, two methods are
        implemented in the embodiment described herein:
        (i)              The issuing body can be instructed through the online account by the
                         logged-in PA to transfer the PA's softcopy data information to the PA's
                         device. The issuing body possesses an application that is capable of
                         interacting with the PAA, termed the add-on version (AOA). The AOA allows
                         the issuing body to send an (encrypted) data information packet to the PA's
                         device. The PA's PAA acknowledges the received data information signal as
                         being from a recognised issuing body, and in one embodiment, ranks this
                         data as being of a higher value due to the fact that it is received from a
                         recognized source.
        (ii)             The issuing body can be instructed through the online account by the
                         logged-in PA to email and/or short message service (SMS) text to the PA's
                         email address and/or mobile phone number a message in the form of a code.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                          16
                         The PA's PAA could only make use of the code if it was sent by a recognised
                         CRRR party (i.e. an ID document issuing body) and if the code corresponded
                         with the PA's PAA. Therefore, once the code has been entered into the PA's
                         PAA the code would be recognised as being from the issuing body. In
                         another scenario, and ID document issuing body such as a government
                         department (presents the option for a customer (i.e. PA) to create an online
                         account (on that department's website), for example, not limited to, using the
                         following methods:
        (i)              setting up the online account online at the department's website by:
        (1)              the PA validating themself using their ID document details,
        (2)              answering challenge-response type questions, and
        (3)              verifying other data info that the department holds that does not appear on
                         the PA's ID document(s);
        (ii)             setting up an online account by phone, using the same, or similar, steps in
                         (i); and/or
        (iii)            setting up an online account at the department's facility by providing Proof of
                         Identity (POI) documents.
        [0075] As part of creating an online account the PA may provide their email address,
        mobile phone number and/or other contact data information. The contact data
        information may then, in turn, be contributed to the government department's records
        of the PA's identity. Essentially, the contact details provided to the ID document
        issuing body (e.g. the government department) may become 'officially' associated to
        the PA's identity, despite the unregulated and/or non-identifying means of the PA
        obtaining (i.e. not being required to prove one's identity using POI before obtaining
        the email address or phone number).
        [0076] In some embodiments, CRRR parties may not be limited to government
        departments but other organisations which the PA may have already provided '100+
        points' of identification to, to prove their identity.
        [0077] For example, Australian financial institutions or banks are required to identify a
        customer under requirements set out by the Financial Transaction Reports Act before
        opening new financial accounts. Therefore, these institutions may already be in a
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    17
        position to become a CRRR party, i.e. are able to provide corroboration towards the
        PA's PAA.
        [0078] In one embodiment, it may be a requirement that issuing bodies confirm any
        data issued that has been inputted into the PA's Profile Account (PAA) before that
        inputted data info is recognised as being factual. Therefore, in a manner analogous to
        a Profile Account having to become activated through verifications, particular data
        information inputted into the Profile Account may similarly be required to be verified
        before it is also activated, or acknowledged as reliable data information.
        [0079] Below are some non-limiting examples of the types of data that may be
        independently verified by government, quasi-government or other trusted institutions
        or bodies:
        [0080] Residential address to be verified by one or more of the following: Driver
        Licence issuing body, utility companies, Police, or other relevant government
        department (including local council).
        [0081] Mobile phone number to be verified by (re)seller of SIM and/or mobile phone
        handset (e.g. telecommunication carrier).
        [0082] Birth date to be verified by birth certificate issuing party and/or Driver Licence
        issuing body, Police or other relevant government department.
        [0083] Email addresses verified by the respective issuing body to confirm that an
        email address is in fact assigned to that PA and/or account holder. Particularly, email
        accounts that are not free-to-obtain domain accounts, instead issued by parties that
        would have required the email address account holder to prove their identity before
        issuing.
        [0084] It will also be understood that a profile account may be further refined by the
        addition of information that may be used to further identify or verify the account
        holder. For example, the account holder may add information regarding their
        academic, professional or trade qualifications.
        [0085] Qualifications added to a person's or account holder's Profile Account may,
        preferably, not be publicly displayed. As with most aspects of a Profile Account,
        details are withheld or private. It would typically be up to the account holder to elect to
        have any of the details publicly disclosed.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    18
        [0086] Further, in one embodiment, an account holder cannot add details such as
        qualifications to their Profile Account, only issuing bodies may add such information.
        There is provided a specific section in a Profile Account that is arranged to directly
        accept qualification information from approved institutions, such as Universities,
        Professional Associations, Trade Associations, and any other bodies tasked with
        overseeing a recognized qualification. In one embodiment, if an issuing body has not
        contributed qualification information to a relevant template field then the field may
        remain blank.
        [0087] In another embodiment, a Profile Account (PAA) may only cause their an
        account holder's qualifications to be publicly displayed or conveyed via the PAA if the
        template qualification field has been 'filled in' (i.e. contributed) by an issuing party.
        [0088] In step D9 the PA may (manually) enter into the PA's Profile Account (PAA), to
        set as their Profile Account's (PAA's) unique ID number, the unique document ID
        number of one of their (prescribed), preferably, government-issued ID documents.
        [0089] In a preferred embodiment, this process is completed automatically. For
        example, the PAA may have installed a preferred prioritised list of ID documents, and
        following the PA causing their ID documents to be inputted into their Profile Account
        (PAA) (as a digital scan of a hardcopy and/or a data info file of a softcopy) the PAA
        would then determine which of the ID documents inputted has the highest list ranking,
        then use that ID document's number to form the PA's Profile Account's (PAA's)
        unique ID number.
        [0090] 'Prescribed' in the context of the present specification refers to identification
        (ID) documents acceptable for completing the aforementioned registration steps
        and/or as required by local laws or policies. Preferably, in addition to assigning the ID
        document's number to the PAA, which may contain other letters or symbols (herein
        these are only described as 'number' or 'no.'), the PA is required to also indicate the
        type of ID document it is such as issuing country (e.g. Australia), ID document class
        (e.g. Driver License), issuing state (e.g. NSW), and so on. Where the PA is required
        to input manually, the PAA includes a user interface selection menu. The PA's PAA
        presents the option of scrolling through a menu list to find the ID document type to
        select. In an alternative embodiment, the PAA may allow text or data to be entered
        into one or more interface form fields, during which potential ID document type
        matches may be presented or refined as a shortlist (e.g. underneath or alongside the
        form field).
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   19
        [0091] The ID document number, which now forms the PA's PAA unique ID number
        may, as a security feature, be subjected to cryptographic treatment, not limited to,
        rotating ciphers or circular-secure encryption techniques.
        [0092] The applicant and the verifiers sought (or their respective participating devices)
        may be the only parties or devices that may unlock the cipher(s) or encryption
        scheme(s) to reveal the actual number representing the applicant's Profile Account
        unique ID number, and by association reveal their ID document's number (i.e. the
        origin of their Profile Account's unique ID number).
        [0093] Preferably, no party except the (prospective) applicant or account holder may
        Access, View, Edit, Copy, Transfer, Store and/or Delete any of their Profile Account
        data information, including any unique ID number that may be assigned to their
        Profile Account.
        [0094] The unique ID number may also be revealed through pseudonymous methods,
        i.e. multiple advocates (e.g. privacy foundations, civil liberty groups) retaining an
        encrypted portion (or data information packet) of the unique ID number. Therefore,
        the full unique ID number may only be revealed by all advocates deciding to combine
        all portions (e.g. upon the presentation of a court order or warrant to identify the
        Profile Account entity). In one embodiment, each advocate may cause their packet to
        be transmitted to the ordering party. The ordering party may receive the packet via
        their respective AOA. The AOA reconstitutes the packets, revealing the ID number.
        [0095] Referring to Figure 14 there is illustrated a preferred embodiment of how an
        applicant may be identified when their identity is normally maintained as anonymous
        and/or pseudonymous.
        [0096] Preferably, by default all data information associated with an entity's Profile
        Account is private, i.e. withheld from any disclosure, including from all parties
        involved in the development, production and ongoing refinement of the PAA. In
        normal circumstances, the Profile Account's owner determines whether they wish to
        cause any of their data info to be disclosed to another party.
        [0097] However, in one embodiment, should an applicant wish to disclose any of their
        data information they may only be provided the opportunity to disclose genuine data
        information, or no information.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   20
        [0098] For example, an applicant's official name may be: [First] John; [Middle] Roger;
        [Last] Smith. In this example, the applicant may disclose one, two or all three of their
        names. The PAA may convey to another party the class (e.g. First, Middle, Last) of
        any of the names disclosed. So, if the applicant only wished to disclose their First
        name, their PAA may disclose only: '(First) John'.
        [0099] In step D10 the PA uploads (i.e. contributes) to their Profile Account (PAA) on
        their device 'seed' (capture and/or characteristic) data information about themselves.
        [00100] 'Seed' capture and/or characteristic data information need not originate only
        from capture devices owned and/or operated by the Profile Account owner, but may
        originate from, or be captured by, one or more third party devices.
        [00101] Further, seed data information may include multiple Profile Account data
        information sets. In one embodiment, (surveillance-type) capture data information is
        not contributed to a Profile Account (PAA). Instead, only characteristic data
        information is contributed in a form which does not allow a reverse conversion into
        (surveillance-type) capture data information for playback or viewing; thus, reinforcing
        (id)entity privacy. [00102] However, a PAA accepts seed capture data information to
        be contributed so that an applicant's head/face, neck and tops of the shoulders (e.g.
        portrait profile photo or 'mug shot') may be taken and attached to the applicant's
        PAA). This would form the applicant's 'passport-style' profile image. It will be
        understood that the image may be a multi-dimensional multimedia file not limited to
        two-dimensions or a single frame. Such a media file may be principally used for the
        verification sighting process, as described later.
        [00103] In a further embodiment, the seed data information may be deleted
        automatically by the PAA and/or manually by the applicant following Profile Account
        activation. From the time of activation no further capture data info may be stored or
        contributed to a PAA.
        [00104] In yet another embodiment, despite seed (capture) data information being
        initially stored or contributed in the previous embodiment, i.e. before PAA activation,
        characteristic data information may still be produced, then stored or contributed to the
        PAA, at the same time.
        [00105] At step D11 the PA provides express (written) informed consent to PAA's
        Terms of Service (ToS) agreement (this may be an optional step, depending on local
        laws and regulations).
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     21
        [00106] At step D12 the PAA conveys instructions to the PA on any remaining steps
        required to complete the setup of their Profile Account.
        [00107] Instructions conveyed in this regard may occur at other times. For example,
        instructions may be conveyed at or after particular times or 'initiating events' up until
        the PA's PAA is activated.
        [00108] An initiating event includes the completion of a verification by a prescribed
        verifier. The instructions to follow an event such as this may convey the remaining
        verifiers to be engaged before the PA's PAA becomes activated.
        [00109] At step D13 the PA may be required to have their prescribed ID document
        originals verified (and/or authenticated) by one or more prescribed parties e.g. a
        judge, solicitor, Police officer, Justice of the Peace, etc.
        [00110] Prescribed verifying parties would typically be considered CRRR parties.
        [00111] The more CRRR parties that verify the applicant's Profile Account (or PAA),
        in conjunction with, for example, the PA's associated ID documents, the more
        credible the PA's Profile Account may become.
        [00112] Preferably, the PA would be required to (also) have their prescribed ID
        documents verified by each respective document issuing party.
        [00113] At step D14 the flowchart process may end, though the next Profile Account
        stage (e.g. the verification process, for activating a Profile Account) may continue, as
        outlined with reference to Figure 12 and/or Figure 19.
        [00114] Figure 6 depicts one embodiment of a portion of a head-mounted capture
        and/or contributing device E100, such as the head-mounted camera & microphone
        device C001 or C007 in Figure 4.
         [00115] Figure 8 is a flowchart diagram which describes a typical capture session by
        a PAA owner E110. Clothing may be able to determine body positions, how one sits,
        stands or walks, crosses one's arms or legs. Many of the items (i.e. recognition
        qualified (data) sources) mentioned above could be incorporated into 'smart' clothing
        (or fabric), not limited to, pulse oximeters.
        [00116] Choice of clothes, ensemble, direction of scarf knot tie, make-up
        colours/shades, jewellery, other fashion accessories.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   22
        [00117] Putting on and taking off particular clothing items may be defined as a set of
        data points, by the use of algorithms.
        [00118] Numerous methods are contemplated or envisaged with respect to 'smart'
        clothing generating capture data that may later be recognised by one or more
        participating devices as representing the act of (un)dressing, not limited to,
        movement, position, orientation, (fabric) dimensional deformation or alteration
        sensors.
        [00119] In an attempt to cheat the recognition system, (offenders?) may try to 'pass
        off authentication' to another party.
        [00120] For example, an authorised party (e.g. a legitimate account holder) may
        generate a (current) 'recognised state' (with their Profile Account) by wearing one or
        more clothing articles, articles which may consist or comprise of capture devices
        leading to capture data being contributed to that wearer's Profile Account data Profile
        Account files. Alternatively or additionally, other capture devices (nearby) may
        capture and recognise the wearer's fashion style, again leading to contributing data.
         In each instance, the account holder's authentication status may then read
        'recognised', e.g. the subject wearing those articles of clothing is account holder 'x'.
        Then, that account holder may attempt to pass those clothing articles to another
        subject to try fool the system that that other subject is instead the account holder.
        [00121] However this fraudulent endeavour may be foiled, not limited to, the
        sequence and minutia of the activity of the account holder undressing and the other
        subject dressing being recognised by one or more capture devices. Essentially, the
        previously 'recognised' account holder may (during this clothes swapping activity,
        have their account status reset, to 'unrecognised' (or recognition levels may drop
        below required 'threshold' values). Thus, making the endeavour futile.
        [00122] It will be understood that while the ensuing example describes facial and
        vocal captures, various other capture subjects, or reference or focal points form part
        of the embodiment described herein. Biometric data information, 'digital persona' data
        information, orientation, location and position data information, or any combination of
        those types of data information may be employed to form ('seed') capture (and/or
        characteristic) data information of the Profile Account (PAA) owner. Those different
        types are represented by the different categories/classes or sets illustrated in the
        Figure 13 screenshot example.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    23
        [00123] In step El the PAA owner (labelled 'User A' for the purpose of this example)
        Ell0 may initiate one or more captures on a computing device E130 such as 'smart'
        phone C006 in Figure 4. The smartphone E130 may be a capture and a contributing
        device, as described in Figure 6 and may include the PAA, which conveys (e.g.
        visually and/or audibly) various instructions. User A El10 may be required to read
        particular content out loud, such that it may be captured by the smartphone E130. For
        example, the PAA may include certain pre-chosen phrases which are intended to
        cover a wide variety of phonetic sounds and inflections. When User A El 10 reads the
        phrases, the smartphone E130 captures vocal (i.e. voice patterns) and facial (i.e.
        expressions) data information.
        [00124] Interactive information may be conveyed such as summarized statistics or
        analytics on User A's El10 Profile Account, e.g. the progress of their captures, what
        (capture) tasks may be remaining, tips on how to achieve the required or outstanding
        captures ('turn your head to your left', 'increase the room's brightness/light conditions
        for this capture session'), notifications of capture completions, the need to repeat
        particular captures for greater accuracy, the current Profile Account recognition
        accuracy score or 'threshold' (refer to screenshot), and so on.
        [00125] In step E2 User A El 10 conducts the capture(s).
        [00126] In one example, a capture may be effected by moving (e.g. swivelling in a
        chair) to allow the capture device's sensor(s) and/or camera(s) to capture different
        aspects of the User's facial/head profile E140 and/or voice projections E120.
        [00127] As mentioned above, facial and vocal type captures are only described as
        examples. It will be understood that User A E110 may not be required to sit in a chair
        to perform these other types of captures, nor these other captures also be foreground
        activities.
        [00128] For example, in a further embodiment User A's El 10 capture device may be
        a wearable device such as a health, medical or fitness device, tracker or monitor, e.g.
        'smart' fashion/ (wearable) health tech C008 in Figure 4. Thus, User A El 10 may
        simply wear the device and proceed with their normal life activities whilst the
        wearable capture device captures data information on and about User A El 10.
        [00129] In another embodiment, User A's Ell0 capture device may be a computing
        device such as computing device C003 in Figure 4; and User A's E110 use or
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   24
        interaction with that device may lead to the formation of 'digital persona' and/or
        biometric capture (then characteristic) data information, as a background activity.
        [00130] Furthermore, in a preferred embodiment of the Profile Account it is the
        requirement for all measurable metrics (e.g. biometrics) of the entity to be captured
        before seeking or being eligible for a Profile Account verification. In an embodiment,
        no further (i.e. uniquely different) captures of a particular (individual) metric may be
        added once all 'metric positions' have been filled. For example, once all of User A's
        Ell0 fingerprints, palmprints, earprints and both eyes (e.g. retinas/irises) have been
        registered in User A's El 10 PAA no more new registrations (of those types) may be
        added for User A.
        [00131] Advantageously, when Entity A El 10 has their metrics verified, Entity A El 10
        would be required to capture (with the verifier witnessing) each of Entity A's El 10
        prescribed metrics (e.g. all 10 of Entity A's El 10 fingerprints).
        [00132] Thus, if all 10 of the Entity A's Ell0 fingerprints are verified as each being
        assigned to a Profile Account (PAA) 'metric position' (e.g. a 'finger slap') and since by
        design the PAA only has a maximum of 10 fingerprint positions available to be
        registered, then no other entity's fingerprint may later be used, or associated as, a
        'key' for Entity A's E110 Profile Account (PAA).
        [00133] Therefore, if another entity had registered one of their fingerprints in this
        Entity A's Ell0 Profile Account (PAA) then a verifier during the verification process
        would be informed that one of Entity A's E110 captured fingerprints was not
        recognised by the PAA upon, apparent, re-capturing. In one embodiment of this
        occurring, the PAA may permit any data info registered for the erroneous fingerprint
        position to be deleted, with Entity A El 10 required to (with the verifier witnessing)
        capture that (or all) fingerprints again.
        [00134] Of course, should an entity be missing one or more fingers (or other subjects
        of metrics) then the verifier may confirm (not limited to) that an 'amputee' status, for
        example, be assigned to that entity's Profile Account (PAA) for that or those particular
        metrics.
        [00135] In step E3, if computing device E130 is also a contributing device, Entity A's
        El 10 computing device El 30 may (after capturing and processing) store
        (e.g. contribute) the (encrypted and converted) captured data information in the
        Profile Account (PAA) data information categories, sets and/or files.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   25
        [00136] In step E4 the computing device E130 may transmit a wireless data signal
        E150 to (at least one) communication network (or internet) E60 in the pursuit of
        remote data information processing and/or storage (i.e. contribution to a backup
        contributing device).
        [00137] A preferred embodiment is User A's E110 capture data information is
        transmitted to another computing device (for synchronized backup), i.e. to another
        contributing device E100. This may be a local and/or remote server such as
        computing device C100 in Figure 4. Further, in order for User A Ell0 to maintain
        control and secureness over their (personal) data information it is preferred that the
        backup device is owned and/or operated (only) by User A El 10.
        [00138] At step E5 the data signal transmitted in step E4 is, in one example
        embodiment, 'propagated' along an ad hoc communication network of one or more
        computer device (router) nodes. These computer device nodes include various
        participating devices which may be owned/operated by other entities (e.g. account
        holders) or the same entity.
        [00139] An embodiment of this invention herein would ensure that any data
        information that may be propagated by another party's (entity's) owned/operated
        device would be utterly unable to derive any benefit from the data information which
        may be temporarily stored on their device. The data information in this instance would
        be encrypted and, preferably, transmitted in (random) asymmetric data information
        packets via different propagation nodes. Thus, reducing further the probability of data
        information security breaches.
        [00140] At step E6 the data information signal is transmitted to (at least one)
        computing device E100 such as computing device C100 in Figure 4.
        [00141] At step E7 the (at least one) computing device E100 may (remotely) process
        and/or store (i.e. contribute to User A's El 10 PAA) the transmitted data information.
        [00142] At step E8, should the (at least one) computing device E100 be required to
        send (back) a data information signal to another (participating) device, such as to
        'smart' phone E130, the data information signal transmission may be sent via (at least
        one) communication network (such as the Internet) E60 (step E9).
        [00143] At step E10 additional, refined, updated or synchronized data information
        from (at least one) computing device E100 is transmitted to device E130.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           26
        [00144] In one embodiment, the process of capturing data information is a completely
        automated activity, i.e. the user is not required to initiate the capture session.
        However, until the user's Profile Account (PAA) has 'matured' (i.e. built/refined data
        information) the designation of the subject of the capture and/or initiation of the
        capture session may be required. These (e.g. temporary capture device & long-term
        'contributing' device storage) steps are described in more detail in Figure 9.
        [00145] Figure 8a is a diagram F550 depicting the principal Profile Account software
        (e.g. PAA, PRA and/or AOA) as a 'platform' F600, with the capability to accept 'add
        on' software F601, F602, F60, F604 to F6n (e.g. recognition applications or
        programs, which may be developed by others). The fundamental principle is anything
        which may lead to the formation, building and/or refinement of a Profile Account for,
        and of, its owner, and can be compatible with the platform may be considered an
        add-on.
        [00146] Some example add-ons are described as follows: (1) Biometric software
        which may facilitate recognition of appearances, bio-dynamics, social behaviors,
        natural physiography, imposed physical characteristics, etc.; (2) 'digital fingerprint' or
        'digital         persona'     software which     may facilitate   the acquisition, processing,
        interpretation of data information related to device interactions or use; (3) software
        which may allow orientation, location and position data information to be utilized; and
        (4) software which may derive benefit from data information related to social
        interactions, associations or reputations such as those related to social media
        engagement or third party confirmations of another party's relationships or claims.
        [00147] In addition to the above, a variety of other person-identifying techniques
        facilitated by add-on software may include:
                                    names -or what the person is called by other people:
                                    codes -or what the person is called by an organization:
                                    knowledge -or what the person knows; and
                                    tokens -or what the person has.
        [00148] In one embodiment, the more a user interacts with or is connected to a
        device and/or sensors having the ability to capture discriminative data information
        utilizing one or more add-ons in conjunction with the platform the more accurate a
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  27
        determination can be made to deduce that the data information being correlated is
        representative of person 'x', and that that person may be the identity being claimed.
        [00149] Figure 8b describes a system and method for creating a Profile Account by
        taking contributed data information via add-on algorithms and 'blending' the data
        information into a single or master authenticator, identifier, verifier and/or recognizer
        for use in easy authentication, identification, verification and/or recognition purposes.
        [00150] To first provide an example analogy, the 'action' of a dynamic 'master
        recognizer' may be considered similar to the process of focusing a distorted or blurry
        image into a sharp, refined image, however, with an additional variable being that the
        original source of the image may constantly change, i.e. its 'ideal' focal/focus point
        may shift, e.g. 'moving goal posts'. In other words, a Profile Account begins as an
        'unfocused image', becoming refined as more data information on, and about, the
        owner is contributed. However, since the owner ages and/or may grow over time, for
        example, their 'actual image' each subsequent moment may change. Therefore, the
        master recognizer is dynamically predisposed.
        [00151] In one embodiment, a master recognizer may comprise of one or more
        'templates', with each template respectively of either a particular type of Profile and/or
        Activity Profile, and each template labeled or coded, accordingly. In another
        embodiment, a template may represent a single-or multi-dimensional scatter plot or
        graph of markers, e.g. F700, which is a two-dimensional graph with an x-and y-axis.
        Each plot point (or marker), e.g. F701, may form following the contribution of
        characteristic data information, e.g. a captured Profile may lead to one marker being
        formed on one particular graph. In another example, a marker may form on a three
        dimensional graph, with the position of the marker dependent on the type, time and
        magnitude of the characteristic data information which it was derived from.
        [00152] In one embodiment, a particular (e.g. biometric facial) Profile may give rise to
        a marker at position x = 1.0, y = 2.5, z = -3.0 on a three-dimensional template.
        However, a particular (e.g. gait movement) Activity Profile may give rise to a marker
        position at x = 50.0, y = -22.0, z = 12.0. Though, an Activity Profile may give rise to
        multiple markers.
        [00153] In sum, more characteristic data information contributed to a Profile Account
        (PAA) consequently results in more markers contributed to a template, e.g. F710
        versus F700; thus, creating a scatter of graph plots. Accordingly, a pattern may
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   28
        manifest, with trend lines or averages (e.g. F741) able to be calculated. Average
        values may represent the most 'refined image' of a Profile Account owner at a
        particular time. In regard to a refined focal point 'shifting' over time this may be
        illustrated by F740, showing the cluster has move to the right (i.e. an increase in x
        axis value) from F741 to F742.
        [00154] It will be understood that while Figure 7 shows a capture device F100 and
        computing environment F200 that are separate, both may be housed in the one
        housing, and if in the one housing may be considered a capture and contributing
        device similar to 'smart' phones C002 or C006 in Figure 4. If in separate housings
        computing environment F200 may be considered only a 'contributing' device such as
        computing device C003 in Figure 4. Alternatively, if there was no (long-term) storage
        (database) (e.g. categories, sets, files) F235 then computing environment F200 may
        operate only as a processing device such as server C100 in Figure 4: helping to
        share the processing load/traffic with a capture device F100, or do the processing for
        capture device F100.
        [00155] Figure 9 is a flowchart describing one embodiment of a process for how
        capture data information may be processed to protect sensitive or personal data
        information.
        [00156] At step H2 a visual scene is captured by capture device F100 (which may
        operate in conjunction with F200) in Figure 7. At Step H3 the digital data information
        is stored in a temporary memory buffer and/or cache such as memory F140 in Figure
        7. The temporary storage occurs while the data information is waiting to be encrypted
        by the next step; and, preferably, the data information is not left in the memory buffer
        for a long (seconds) period of time, nor is it stored in a non-volatile form (e.g. tape,
        hard disk drive, solid state drive, DVD, etc).
        [00157] At step H4 the buffered and/or cached digitized capture data information is
        encrypted in real-time by, for example, the PRA. This encrypted data information is,
        again, temporarily stored on the same or similar module as memory F140 in Figure 7.
        Alternatively or additionally, the encrypted data information may be transmitted and/or
        transferred via a communications link F155 to a memory unit such as memory unit
        F223 in Figure 7 for temporary storage.
        [00158] Step H5 occurs in real-time (or concurrently) with step H4. At step H5 the
        PRA reads the digitized capture data information and utilizes processor F130 and/or
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                         29
        processing unit F222, 'past experience' module F229 (e.g. algorithms and/or
        'memories') and/or recogniser engine F225 in Figure 7, i.e. the PRA in this step may
        convert (e.g. surveillance) capture data information into (encrypted) characteristic
        data information, again, in real-time. Characteristic data information, for example,
        may be a form of pattern, machine readable or other mathematical and/or recognition
        code, which may be recognised by an add-on program.
        [00159] In more detail, the capture device may capture one or more scenes and a
        'significant' or 'noteworthy' instance (e.g. frame, Profile) and/or sequence (e.g. series
        of frames, Activity Profiles) may be recognized by the PRA. Such instances and/or
        sequences may later be detected as occurring again; thus, if the scene's subject was
        a user, the device may have recognized a behavioral pattern.
        [00160] A typical scenario may be the process of a user sitting down in a chair. The
        way the user sits down in this chair may be different to other people. This difference
        may be contributed to a user's Profile Account to further refine it. If after multiple
        instances of the user sitting in the chair a pattern emerges (e.g. confirming that the
        user does repeatedly, within a margin of tolerance, move to sit in that chair in a semi
        or fully-unique way) then the identified behavior is 'marked' in the user's Profile
        Account (PAA) templates.
        [00161] As previously described, a set of characteristic and/or algorithmic data
        information, for example, that related to 'points of reference' (e.g. Profiles or Activity
        Profiles) during the activity sequence would be stored. Such (Activity) Profiles may
        relate to:
        (i)              environmental objects (e.g. a chair); and
        (ii)             physical biomechanics of the account holder during the sequence of events.
        [00162] Therefore, no party (including the user) may replay (or playback) all the
        instances of sitting in chairs, for example. In another embodiment, should the account
        holder wish to view the data information stored on those chair sits, the only data
        information viewable is analytic data information, for example, about biomechanics,
        not an audiovisual file of the user.
        [00163] Similar to a previous exemplary embodiment, characteristic data info (in step
        H5) is then only stored on a very temporary memory buffer and/or cache such as
        memory F140 and/or F223 in Figure 7. This temporary storage occurs while the
        characteristic data info awaits one or more 'rightful claim' determinations; and
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                         30
        preferably the data info (in this step or at this process stage) is never stored on
        longer-term mediums (e.g. tape, hard disk drive, solid state drive, DVD, and so on).
        [00164] In the embodiment described, the capture data information is converted into a
        form of characteristic and/or algorithmic data information (e.g. by an platform add-on),
        which may be derived from analysis of (or observational reference point data
        information extracted from) pre-existing (and, preferably, very temporary) audiovisual
        (multimedia) data information (or surveillance feed).
        [00165] At step H6 the PRA analyzes the characteristic data information using, for
        example, (modules in) an optic and acoustic processing engine F220 in Figure 7.
        [00166] At step H7 analysis results are produced, and the analysis data information is
        temporarily saved in memory such as memory F140 and/or F223.
        [00167] At step H8 the results are interpreted to determine if they are relevant and/or
        of value.
        [00168] Relevant and/or of value may mean, not limited to, for example, that the
        characteristic data information comprises one or more (Activity) Profiles, classified as
        being 'public' and/or 'private'.
        [00169] A processor such as processor F130 and/or processing unit F222 in Figure 7,
        in communication with data information stored in memory such as memory F140
        and/or F223 in Figure 7, runs the interpretation process.
        [00170] Interpretation results may then be stored in a temporary (buffered/cached)
        state, as described previously. At step H9 should the results be interpreted as
        relevant and/or of value the ('private') characteristic data information (formed in step
        H5) is then packaged for transfer via communications link F155 and/or (at least one)
        communication network (or internet) C60 in Figure 4, to a computing device such as a
        computing environment F200 in Figure 7, which may be a device (or component in a
        device) such as 'smart' phone C002 or C006 in Figure 4.
        [00171] Note: the packaging process may include:
        (i)              segmenting the characteristic data info, i.e. reducing it, so that the
                         characteristic data info concerns or relates to (prior capture data info that
                         was of) a single moment in time of a visual scene or the smallest viable
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           31
                         and/or feasible time moment to allow this invention disclosed herein to
                         operate    effectively and/or efficiently, and/or to        ensure    no  excess
                         characteristic data info is transferred and/or transmitted (anymore than is
                         necessary) to other potential devices (or components of devices), i.e.
                         prospective 'contributing' devices (or components); and
        (ii)             the adding or attaching of metadata to the characteristic data info to be
                         transferred and/or transmitted, and metadata may be, for example, not
                         limited to: time/date and location (e.g. position) of capture; the capture
                         device's (unique) ID number and its position; interpretation analysis results;
                         details of the characteristic data info such as type (e.g. which categories,
                         sets and/or files the characteristic data info relates to; perhaps, to assist with
                         structuring long-term storage in a database); the required 'threshold' value
                         for contributing; and so on.
        [00172] The packaging process (e.g. segmenting and/or metadata attaching) may
        utilise a processor such as a processor and/or a processing unit, in collaboration
        (communication) with data info stored on, or in, memory and an operation system
        (module) such as operating system.
        [00173] In one embodiment, the packaging process may conform to that (required for
        the process) described inthe Figures.
        [00174] In another embodiment, any characteristic data info classified as 'public' that
        was interpreted as relevant and/or of value may be stored and/or integrated
        (automatically in this step) into a 'learning' module such as 'past experience' module
        F229 in Figure 6.
        [00175] Alternatively or additionally, such data info may be transferred and/or
        transmitted (e.g. wirelessly) via a communications link F155, and/or (at least one)
        communication network (or internet) C60 in Figure 4, to a (remotely located central)
        server such as computing device C100, or any other device, in Figure 4, for
        integration into a similar 'learning' module such as 'past experience' module F229 in
        Figure 7.
        [00176] Data information classified as 'private' is not treated to such integration
        and/or communication processes as Oust) described for 'public' data info, unless the
        'private' data info is being contributed following a 'rightful claim' to one or more
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   32
        'contributing' devices (or components) owned/operated by that same 'rightfully
        claiming' party (or account holder).
        [00177] If there is not any relevant and/or of value characteristic data info based on
        the interpretation results ('private' and/or 'public') then the characteristic data info is
        automatically (with haste) deleted and/or new data info written over it.
        [00178] In step H10 the packaged characteristic data info is transferred and/or
        transmitted (not limited to, for example, as an encrypted wireless) data info signal via
        a communication link F155 in Figure 7 to a prospective 'contributing' device (or
        component).
        [00179] Communications link F155 may broadcast (e.g. wirelessly) in conjunction with
        a communications module (not shown), and may connecting to other devices, i.e.
        F100 and/or F200 in Figure 7 (depending on which device transmitted), which may
        have a similar (receiving) communications module. These other devices may be a
        'smart' phone C002 and/or C006, and/or computing device C003 and/or C100 in
        Figure 4.
        [00180] In step H11 a prospective 'rightfully claiming' 'contributing' device (or
        component) receives the communicated packaged characteristic data info such as a
        computing device C003 in Figure 4.
        [00181] Computing device C003 may consist or comprise of components (or
        modules) similar to computing environment F200 in Figure 7.
        [00182] If this 'contributing' device F200 is (part of) the same device that transferred
        and/or transmitted the communicated packaged characteristic data info, i.e. both
        capture and 'contributing' device (or components) are housed together, then the
        following steps still apply as though they were separate devices (or components),
        and/or as though each were owned/operated by other parties. This is because it is an
        exemplary embodiment of this invention disclosed herein that a third party device (or
        component) never ('unrightfully') receives (or, more accurately, stores or 'contributes')
        another party's (captured and/or) characteristic data info (where that other party may
        be the scene's subject and/or in the scene's capture and/or sensor area or range).
        [00183] In an exemplary embodiment, this incoming data info, from the capture
        device (or component) described in step H10, is not allocated (or stored) to (long
        term) storage such as storage (database) F235 (e.g. categories, sets, files) in Figure
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  33
        7, only stored (very) temporarily in buffered and/or cache memory such as a memory
        unit, while a processing unit such as processing unit F222 in Figure 7, a recognition
        engine such as recognition engine F225 in Figure 7 and a 'past experience'
        analyses/correlates the (received) incoming data info against/to database stored data
        info categories, sets and/or files.
        [00184] In step H12 the 'contributing' device (or component), described in step H11,
        queries the (received) incoming characteristic data info (and metadata), or the
        contents of the packaged data info signal communication, against/with its stored
        (and/or accessible) database for any correlation, still without storing any of the
        incoming data info in this long-term storage database or the medium being queried
        such as storage (database) (e.g. categories, sets, files).
        [00185] Further, this storage module may be considered the medium that stores (a
        synchronised copy of) an account holder's [master] Profile Account data info long
        term. Other devices of the account holder's with a similar or same storage medium
        would store another, or the other, (synchronised) copy.
        [00186] In step H13 the query results are produced, then the results are interpreted to
        determine if there is relevance or value.
        [00187] In one embodiment, the incoming metadata consisting or comprising of
        positional (time and location) data info may be an important element or dimension to
        query, because the owner/operator (e.g. applicant or account holder) of the
        'contributing' device (or component) may have a 'positional trail' of already
        contributed metadata that may be analysed against/with the new incoming metadata
        for (e.g. geographical) closeness. Should new and (most) recently contributed (i.e.
        existing) metadata be determined as having feasible positional relationships, then the
        new incoming metadata (associated with its respective characteristic data info) may
        be interpreted as being of greater relevance or value, i.e. more likely to be
        representative of the 'contributing' device's (or component's) owner/operator or
        Profile Account's applicant or account holder.
        [00188] In another embodiment, positional data info of the incoming metadata may
        also, or instead, be queried against/with the position of one or more of the entity's
        (e.g. applicant's or account holder's) devices at the date/time common with, or
        specified in, the incoming metadata. In other words, finding out if any of the entity's
        (participating) devices were located in a space at, or around, the same time near
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     34
        where and when the (allegedly) new incoming characteristic data info was captured. If
        so, similar to the previous embodiment, a higher relevance or value may result upon
        interpretation.
        [00189] In step H14 if results interpreted as relevant or of value then the (received)
        incoming characteristic data info (and/or metadata) would have met or exceeded the
        'contributing' device's (or component's) Profile Account (PAA) (correlation) 'threshold'
        for acceptance.
        [00190] A correlation match, and/or meeting or exceeding specified 'threshold'(s),
        then would allow the (received) incoming data info to be allocated to (the) (longer
        term) storage such as storage (database) (e.g. categories, sets, files). In other words,
        the characteristic data info (with metadata) would be contributed to a 'rightfully
        claiming' 'contributing' device (or component), but only if the capture device's
        (component's) imposed 'threshold' value for contributing is also met and/or exceeded,
        i.e. the capture device (or component) may also dictate the minimum, not limited to,
        'quality' level of new characteristic data info (and its metadata) being contributed to a
        'contributing' device (or component). The highest 'threshold' value prevails, i.e.
        determines the required 'threshold' the 'contributing' device (or component) must
        obey. In one embodiment, the PRA may set the capture device's (or component's)
        'threshold' value, and PAA may set the 'contributing' device's (or component's)
        'threshold' value.
        [00191] A data info signal is packaged for a reply back to the communicating device
        (or component).             The reply response would     be to essentially   inform   the
        communication capture device (or component) of the 'contributing' device's (or
        component's) interpretation results, i.e. sending only (id)entity anonymous data info,
        of course.
        [00192] An exemplary embodiment (or objective) of sending this response would be
        to allow the capture and 'contributing' devices (or components) to enter into, together,
        a dedicated and (highly) secure data info communication channel-so any other (e.g.,
        not limited to, future) characteristic data info (with its associated metadata) that
        exactly or similarly (within a specified tolerance) relates or corresponds to the
        characteristic data info (and its metadata) within the packaged communication,
        received originally from the capture device (or component), that was interpreted as
        relevant and/or of value, and then later contributed, by the 'contributing' device (or
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                          35
        component), may also be communicated to this 'rightfully claiming' 'contributing'
        device (or component).
        [00193] In step H15 'contributing' device (or component) transfers and/or transmits
        (e.g. broadcasts) the (encrypted) reply data info signal back to the capture device (or
        component), which preferably is the only device (or component) able to receive
        (and/or decrypt) the reply data info signal.
        [00194] In one embodiment the 'contributing' device (or component) replies with a
        data info signal which consists or comprises necessary 'handshake' and/or 'hash(ing)'
        data info which was originally transferred and/or transmitted by the capture device.
        This method may be used to establish a (dedicated and secure) data info
        communication channel between the two devices (or components). The method may
        employ, for example, Transport Layer Security (TLS) and/or Secure Socket Layer
        (SSL) cryptographic protocols and/or one or more other secure (e.g. client-server)
        communication methods from time to time. 'Client' in the example provided may be
        considered the 'contributing' device (or component) and 'server' the capture device
        (or component).
        [00195] In step H16 the (original) capture device (or component) is able to receive the
        reply data info signal.
        [00196] In step H17 the                   received 'contributing' device's    (or component's)
        communicated reply results in the following processes by the capture device (or
        component):
        (i)              'contributing' device's (or component's) query and/or interpretation
                         results are evaluated, e.g. not limited to, ensuring that the 'contributing'
                         device's (or component's) 'threshold' value met/meets or exceeded/exceeds
                         the capture device's (or component's) set 'threshold' value.
        (ii)             a dedicated and (highly) secure data info communication channel is
                         (accepted to be) 'opened up' (or established) between both the capture
                         device (or component) and 'contributing' device (or component).
        [00197] In step H18 capture device (or component) then allocates any future
        converted capture data info, i.e. characteristic data info (with associated metadata),
        which similarly relates to and/or corresponds with the 'contributing' device's (or
        component's) accepted (and contributed) characteristic data info (that occurred in
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                      36
        step H14) to be transferred and/or transmitted securely to the 'contributing' device (or
        component).
        [00198] Despite the parameters of the communication data info exchange, perhaps,
        already agreed to (in principle) by the 'contributing' device (or component), as part of,
        or in, step H14, the 'contributing' device (or component) for added security (or to
        maintain Profile Account integrity) similarly vet and/or assess any future incoming
        characteristic data info (and its associated metadata) to ensure, for example, not
        limited to, 'threshold' values continue to be met and/or exceeded.
        [00199] Further, the 'contributing' device (or component) may also communicate such
        similar (or the same) vetting and/or assessment results (i.e. queries and/or
        interpretation results) back to the capture device (or component) as occurred in
        previous steps H14 and H15 in Figure 9.
        [00200] Furthermore, the capture device (or component) may also conduct similar (or
        the same) processes as described in steps H16 and H17, not limited to, for example,
        ensuring that the 'contributing' device's (or component's) 'threshold' values were, and
        continue to be, acceptable, otherwise the dedicated and (highly) secure data info
        communication channel between the two devices (or components) may be cancelled
        (and by either device, or component).
        [00201] In step H19, preferably, any capture (and/or characteristic) data info, that was
        stored in buffered and/or cached memory, once 'rightfully claimed' by a 'contributing'
        device (or component) may then be deleted from the capture device (or component)
        or the data info written over with new data info about to progress through the above
        steps (e.g. not limited to, in a FIFO process).
        [00202] However, should there be two recognised entities (e.g. prospective account
        holders) in the original captured scene (determined from the characteristic data info
        by the capture device) then another embodiment would be deletion may follow all
        'rightful claims', i.e. a first expiry time may be extended to allow all numbers of entities
        to possibly claim. For example, the capture device (or component) originally may
        have recognised three (distinct) entities captured in the scene of one unit or moment
        of time. Therefore, the capture device (or component) may then wait until three
        'rightful claims' have been acknowledged by it before proceeding to delete. Although,
        it is a preferable embodiment of this invention disclosed herein that once a maximum
        expiry time has been reached any 'unclaimed' data info is deleted in haste.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   37
        [00203] It should be noted that at, or in, any step (or process) in Figure 9 should data
        info be transferred and/or transmitted via a communications link such as
        communications link, and/or (at least one) communication network (or internet) such
        as C60 in Figure 4, and other (participating third party) devices (or components) such
        as head-mounted camera & microphone C001, 'smart' fashion/(wearable health tech)
        C008 and/or 'smart' phone C006 in Figure 4 are used (e.g. in an ad hoc network data
        info communication 'propagation' arrangement or method), in order for the 'rightful
        owner' to receive their data info, then any data info (concerning or relating to this
        invention disclosed herein) must similarly (or exactly) conform to the exemplary
        and/or preferred embodiments with respect to maintaining the data info of a first party
        (i.e. entity or account holder) as anonymous, private, encrypted and confidential while
        that first party's data info is being 'propagated' by (an)other party's (participating)
        device (or component) during the (e.g. ad hoc) communication exchange(s) or
        process(es). One method or embodiment would be to ensure that during this
        'propagation' process data info is, again, only very temporarily stored on a buffered
        and/or cached memory (medium) (as described in other steps in Figure 9), until such
        time as the data info has been 'rightfully claimed' and/or a set time limit has expired.
        [00204] For example, any involved (participating) device (or component) in the (e.g.
        ad hoc) communication exchange(s) or process(es) may communicate and/or be
        communicated the current status of 'rightful claims' to one or more packaged
        characteristic data info, for example, that they may be temporarily storing on a
        buffered and/or cached memory medium. These status updates may coincide with
        'rightful claim' acknowledgements described previously in step H19. That is, the
        (participating) devices (or components) may be communicated with (or at a separate
        time moment) the number of recognised entities (e.g. prospective account holders)
        captured in the scene of the packaged characteristic data info they are temporarily
        holding (i.e. storing). Then, following the (participating) devices (or components)
        being communicated that the specified number of entities have 'rightfully claimed' or a
        set time expires (whichever happens first) the (participating) devices (or components)
        automatically, and with haste, delete the stored packaged characteristic data info.
        [00205] In step H20 the process ends or otherwise the flowchart process is repeated
        as necessary, e.g. with new: captured scenes, capture data info, then characteristic
        data info and so on.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   38
        [00206] Note: The process of Figure 9 may be performed by one or more computing
        devices. Each step in the process of Figure 9 may be performed by the same or
        different computing devices (and at the same, e.g. real-time, or different time) as
        those used in other steps, and each step need not necessarily be performed by a
        single computing device.
        [00207] Figure 10 depicts a biometric system with reference to a typical system's
        components.
        [00208] In one embodiment, capture device P100A comprises two main components,
        i.e. one or more sensors (e.g. P110A) and one or more pre-processing units (e.g.
        P120A). A pre-processing unit may be similar to that described for 'Scene change
        detection algorithms for content-based video indexing and retrieval' or any other
        similar process for appropriately determining changes in a scene, or source of
        capture (if not a visual recognition process).
        [00209] In another embodiment, a processing unit may be integrated in capture
        device P100A, or it may be separately housed, e.g. as a remote (processing) server
        (e.g. P300). In one embodiment of the processing unit P300 it comprises two main
        components, i.e. a feature extractor (e.g. P130A) and a template generator (e.g.
        P140A).
        [00210] A feature extractor may represent platform add-ons such as recognition
        software developer kits (SDKs). Any number of SDK service providers, for example,
        may be employed including Aurora ; MegaMatcher; VeriFinger, -Eye, -Look, -Speak;
        OmniPerception; Gait Recognition System;           Grus Iris; Iris ID iCAM;     Fujitsu
        PalmSecure; etc.
        [00211] In one scenario, a biometric source is captured by the capture sensor (e.g.
        P110A), the data pre-processed (e.g. P120A), subsequent features within the data
        information are extracted (e.g. 130A), a feature template is generated (e.g. P140A), if
        it is a new template for registration or enrolment purposes it is contributed to a
        storage device (e.g. P200), or a new template is matched (e.g. P210) against stored
        templates (e.g. P220) and if correctly correlated (within set degree of tolerance or
        threshold) an authentication result occurs, which may 'unlock' a virtual or physical
        access point or application (e.g. P444). Such applications may include device or web
        interface log-ins to effect control or convey commands, or to convey to another party
        a recognition value. [00212] Figure 11 is a block diagram of one embodiment of a
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                 39
        networked computing environment for an (in person) Profile Account (PAA)
        verification session (or process) E30 to officially link or associate an applicant's 'seed'
        (capture and characteristic) data info. This scenario (or activity) is performed with
        and/or witnessed by, preferably, a CRRR party E8 (e.g. a public servant such as a
        Police officer or Passport Office government employee).
        [00213] El may represent the verifying party's E8 (verification) 'domain' (and may, for
        example, consist or comprise of devices such as E3, E4, E5 and E14, which may be
        owned and/or operated by the verifying party, the verifying party's E8 employer
        organisation or one or more third parties).
        [00214] E2 consists or comprises of example types of capture devices that may be
        involved in the verifying session, and may be owned and/or operated by the verifying
        party E8.
        [00215] E3 may represent one or more (participating) (e.g. surveillance) capture
        devices such as security camera & microphone C004 or C005 in Figure 4 in the
        vicinity of the verification session.
        [00216] In one embodiment, one of the devices may capture the applicant before
        and/or during the verification process.
        [00217] E4 may represent one or more (participating) (e.g. worn/carried) capture
        devices such as augmented reality and/or 'spy' glasses with a forward or externally
        facing camera/microphone, which may be the same as, or similar to, head-mounted
        camera & microphone C001 or C007 in Figure 4, and as further depicted in Figure 6.
        [00218] E5 may represent the verifying party's E8 'smart' device, which may be the
        same as, or similar to, 'smart' phone C002 or C006 in Figure 4, and may have
        modules, or conform to a computing design, the same as, or similar to, the generic
        device.
        [00219] E6 may represent a capture field of view (or sensor range boundaries) of one
        or more of the devices represented within El and/or E2, e.g. E3, E4 and/or E5.
        [00220] Capture data acquired in this instance may be contributed (in a 'tagged' state)
        to the applicant's E15 Profile Account (PAA), e.g. on the applicant's device E9 and/or
        E13.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     40
        [00221] E7 may represent the verifying party's E8 data info signal transmissions
        which, preferably, are wireless network communications. The (method of) network
        communications may otherwise be the same as, or similar to, the specifications
        described in [the first paragraph of] Figure 4 Networked computing environment [D],
        with respect to the one or more wired and/or wireless network.
        [00222] Any one of the devices in the verifying party's E8 possession (or within the El
        domain) may have these network communication capabilities (thus, are collectively
        represented by E7), and therefore are able to communicate with, or via, the (at least
        one) communication network (or internet) E24.
        [00223] Further, the network communication capabilities of, for example, E3, E4, E5
        and/or E14 in conjunction with the (at least one) communication network (or internet)
        E24 may allow any of these devices (within the El domain) to communicate with, not
        only, any of the applicant's E15 devices (e.g. E9 and E13) but also any of the devices
        within El.
        [00224] E8 may represent the verifying party (or verifier).
        [00225] Further description on verifiers were mentioned above in the final step(s) of
        Figure 5 Profile Account formation, link 'seed' PAA data information.
        [00226] E9 may represent the applicant's E15 'smart' device, which may be the same
        as, or similar to, the verifier's E8 'smart' device E5 described above.
        [00227] E10 may represent the applicant's E15 data info signal transmissions, which,
        preferably, are wireless network communications as similarly described in, or for, E7.
        [00228] El1 may represent a capture field of view (or sensor range boundaries)
        for/from (components or modules of) the applicant's E15 'smart' device E9.
        [00229] The 'smart' device E9, therefore, may consist or comprise of, not limited to, a
        (e.g. surveillance) camera and microphone, fingerprint/palmprint, eye (iris/retina)
        scanner and/or other biometric capture component(s) or module(s).
        [00230] The 'smart' device E9 may capture the applicant before and/or during the
        verification process.
        [00231] These two points above may equally (and respectively) apply to the verifier
        and verifier's E8 'smart' device(s), e.g. E5.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   41
        [00232] -E12 may represent (e.g. hardcopy) originals of the applicant's E15 ID
        documents.
        [00233] E13 may represent the applicant's E15 (e.g. worn, carried, implanted and/or
        embedded) capture device(s) such as 'smart' fashion/(wearable) health tech C008 in
        Figure 4.
        [00234] E14 may represent the verifying party's (e.g. worn, carried, implanted and/or
        embedded) capture device(s) as similarly described in, or for, E13.
        [00235] E15 may represent the applicant, present(ing) for a verification session at
        verification position E30.
        [00236] E16 may represent the applicant E15 presenting E16 to the verifier E8 (some
        or all of) the applicant's 'seed' (capture) data info [EA] stored in, or on, (and being
        displayed on, or via) the applicant's E15 'smart' device E9.
        [00237] [EA] may represent (some or all of) the applicant's E15 'seed' (capture) data
        info stored in, or on, (and being displayed on, or via) the applicant's E15 'smart'
        device E9. Further description of this follows in Figure 12 Verify Profile Account:
        officially link 'seed' PAA data info [F].
        [00238] E17 may represent the verifying party E8 sighting E17 the applicant's E15
        'seed' (capture) data info [EA].
        [00239] E19 may represent the applicant E15 presenting to the verifier E8 the
        applicant's (ID document E12) particulars that were entered into the applicant's E15
        Profile Account (PAA) [EB] on the applicant's El 5 'smart' device E9.
        [00240] [EB] may represent the applicant's E15 (ID document E12) particulars that
        were entered into the applicant's E15 Profile Account (PAA) on their 'smart' device
        E9. This 'entering process' was described in Figure 5 Profile Account formation, link
        'seed' PAA data info [F], particularly, steps D7 and D8.
        [00241] E20 may represent the verifying party E8 sighting E20 the applicant's E15 (ID
        document E12) particulars which were entered, or inputted, into the applicant's E15
        Profile Account (PAA) [EB] on the applicant's El 5 'smart' device E9.
        [00242] E21 may represent the applicant E15 providing E21 to the verifier E8 the
        applicant's original (e.g. hardcopy) ID documents E12 for sighting E22.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    42
        [00243] E22 may represent the verifying party sighting E22 the applicant's E15
        original (e.g. hardcopy) ID documents E12.
        [00244] E23 may represent (e.g. wireless) data info signal transmissions from one or
        more transmitting devices (e.g. E9 and/or E13) of the applicant's E15 to the (at least
        one) communication network (or internet) E24.
        [00245] E24 may represent the (at least one) communication network (or internet)
        such as the (at least one) communication network (or internet) C60 in Figure 4 and/or
        E60 in Figure 8.
        [00246] E25 may represent (e.g. wireless) data info signal transmissions from (at
        least one) communication network (or internet) E24 to one or more (e.g. wireless)
        data info signal transmission receiving devices (e.g. E3, E4, E5 and/or E14) of the
        verifying party's E8.
        [00247] E26 may represent (e.g. wireless) data info signal transmissions from one or
        more transmitting devices (e.g. E3, E4, E5 and/or E14) of the verifying party's E8 to
        (at least one) communication network (or internet) E24.
        [00248] E27 may represent (e.g. wireless) data info signal transmissions from (at
        least one) communication network (or internet) E24 to one or more (e.g. wireless)
        data info signal transmission receiving devices (e.g. E9 and/or E13) of the applicant's
        E15.
        [00249] E28 may represent (at least one) computing device, e.g. a remotely located
        central server such as the computing device C100 in Figure 4.
        [00250] E29 may represent (e.g. wireless) data info signal transmissions to and/or
        from (at least one) communication network (or internet) E24 and one or more (e.g.
        wireless) data info signal transmission receiving and transmitting devices, i.e.
        computing device E28.
        [00251] E30 may represent the verification session position (e.g. the space/location at
        a particular time).
        [00252] Figure 12 is a flowchart describing one embodiment of a process for Profile
        Account verifications, i.e. officially linking, or associating, the data info which the
        applicant has (previously) caused to be inputted (or entered) into their Profile Account
        (PAA).
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    43
        [00253] The Figure 12 process may begin at step G1, which may be a continuation
        from D14 in Figure 5.
        [00254] In step G2 the applicant E15 in Figure 11 may visit the 'Registry's' website,
        for example, to realise a participating verifier E8 in Figure 11 in their (geographic)
        area.
        [00255] To view or access the 'Registry' website, the applicant El 5 in Figure 11 may
        use their PAA-installed and -running 'smart' device E9 in Figure 11 to communicate
        with a 'Registry' server such as computing device E28 in Figure 11 via the (at least
        one) communication network (or internet) E24 in Figure 11.
        [00256] In step G3 the applicant E15 in Figure 11, preferably, schedules an
        appointment with verifier E8 in Figure 11.
        [00257] To schedule an appointment, the applicant El 5 in Figure 11 may use (one of)
        their PAA-installed and -running 'smart' device E9 in Figure 11 to communicate with a
        'Registry' server such as computing device E28 in Figure 11 via the (at least one)
        communication network (or internet) E24 in Figure 11.
        [00258] In one embodiment the applicant El5 in Figure 11 may be advised not to
        schedule appointments (or, more specifically, meet a verifier E8 in Figure 11) until
        after the applicant's PAA has advised the applicant that the applicant's Profile
        Account (PAA) has advanced and/or matured to a predefined or specified level, e.g.
        enough 'seed' (capture and/or characteristic) data info has been contributed. The
        level may be set and/or adjusted from time to time by the 'Registry', perhaps, in
        response to changes in government regulations (e.g. higher Profile Account
        recognition accuracy 'threshold' being required).
        [00259] In another embodiment the applicant's E15 in Figure 11 PAA may prevent
        eligibility of the applicant to schedule appointments with a verifier E8 in Figure 11.
        Accordingly, a 'verification appointment system' (e.g. client software application) may
        be integrated into, or be working in conjunction with, the applicant's PAA; and, the
        'verification appointment system' may be hosted on a 'Registry' server such as
        computing device E28 in Figure 11. Thus, if an applicant's Profile Account (PAA) has
        not advanced and/or matured enough the feature or function of confirming an
        appointment (or finalising the booking) in, or on, the applicant's PAA may not be
        'available' to (or an option to select by) that applicant. Instead instructions may be
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    44
        conveyed to that applicant, advising what is required to become eligible (i.e. for that
        option to be available).
        [00260] In yet another embodiment, reaching or exceeding the predefined
        advancement and/or maturity level may mean, for example, that the applicant's 'seed'
        (capture and/or characteristic) data info [EA] needs to first pass (and remain over) an
        acceptable 'threshold' of recognition accuracy. In other words, the applicant's Profile
        Account (PAA) data info sets (and/or files) may need to be developed to a particular
        level before an applicant is eligible for Profile Account verifications (or activation).
        [00261] Accordingly, the (prospective) applicant may be required to undertake
        multiple deliberate capture sessions, e.g. 'swivel chair captures' (refer to Figure 8
        Capturing (or scanning) [D]), which may also include (at the same time) the
        (prospective) applicant being required to read out loud conveyed PAA messages or
        instructions, for instance; so to form, build and/or refine the (prospective) applicant's
        vocal and/or speech digital 'signature' (an element or 'set' in the PAA). Other subjects
        of captures may also be relevant or required such as scanning their fingerprints,
        palmprints, earprints and other biometrics. Refer to 6.1.1.1.7 Profile Account data info
        categories, sets and/or files for further description on sources for capturing (or
        scanning).
        [00262] In step G4 the applicant E15 in Figure 11 attends the verification appointment
        (position E30 in Figure 11).
        [00263] Step G5 may be optional. In step G5 the applicant's E15 in Figure 11 Profile
        Account (PAA) may, preferably, receive and contribute ('tagged') characteristic data
        info from (participating) capture devices within proximity of (or leading up to) the
        verification session position E30 in Figure 11.
        [00264] Characteristic data info in this step may originate from (and/or be captured
        by) one or more capture devices owned and/or operated by the verifier E8 in Figure
         11 or the verifier's (employer) organisation, e.g. E3, E4 and/or E5 in Figure 11.
        Additionally or alternatively, characteristic data info in this instance may originate from
        one or more capture devices owned and/or operated by (and/or in the possession of)
        the applicant E15 (e.g. E9 and/or E13), or one or more third parties.
        [00265] Characteristic data info contributed to an applicant's E15 in Figure 11 Profile
        Account (PAA) that carries associated 'tags' (e.g. a type of metadata) which state that
        the characteristic data info was acquired from, or captured by, one or more capture
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   45
        devices nearby to the verification session position E30 in Figure 11 and, preferably,
        within a short period of time before the verification session commenced may indicate
        (or be interpreted as having) a higher level of credibility, and/or may suggest a
        smaller window of opportunity for potential exploitation or subversion of the PRA/PAA
        product/service ('system') by the (apparent) applicant and any colluding parties.
        Therefore, characteristic data info contributed (geographically) close by and/or being
        recent to the verification session position may grant to the applicant a higher
        probability that the verification session will be successfully completed, e.g. allow the
        verification session capture 'threshold' to be met or exceeded (more details on this
        'threshold' in the following steps).
        [00266] In step G6 the applicant E15 in Figure 11 meets E30 in Figure 11 with the
        verifier E8 in Figure 11.
        [00267] At step G7 the verifier E8 in Figure 11 realises the applicant's E15 in Figure
         11 verification intent-simply, the applicant may inform the verifier of the scheduled
        verification appointment, and the verifier acknowledges.
        [00268] In step G8 the verifier E8 in Figure 11 retrieves their verification ('smart')
        device (e.g. E5 in Figure 11) with verifying-PAA installed and running on it.
        [00269] The verifier's E8 in Figure 11 verification device may have installed on it a
        special version of the PAA (or the verification functions/features may be an 'add-on'
        to the normal version of the software application, 'AOA'), which would grant the
        verifier the ability (and authorisation) to conduct and complete a (successful)
        applicant verification. Herein this special version may be referred to as 'verifying
        PAA'.
        [00270] In step G9 the verifier E8 in Figure 11 logs into (e.g. unlocks) their verification
        device E5 in Figure 11, if not already logged-in.
        [00271] Since a verifier's E8 in Figure 11 verifying-PAA may also be a full-version
        Profile Account (PAA), i.e. consisting or comprising of characteristic data info on, or
        with the primary capture subject being, the verifier, then the verifier's verifying-Profile
        Account (PAA) device (as soon as the verifier interacts with it) may automatically
        recognise the verifier-not requiring a deliberate (manual) log-in by the verifier. For
        further description on this refer to Using Profile Account section and FIG Device
        access, log-on or command/instruct [F].
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                        46
        [00272] Further, in order to utilise the (or have a functional and/or activated) verifying
        PAA the verifier, themself, may have already pursued their own required verifications
        conducted by other verifiers (though, may have been structured differently to non
        verifying parties).
        [00273] Step G10 may be optional, but preferred. In step G10 the verifier's E8 in
        Figure 11 verifying-PAA device E5 in Figure 11 may detect the presence of the
        applicant's E15 in Figure 11 PAA-installed device E9 in Figure 11, and vice versa.
        [00274] Numerous embodied methods are contemplated in order for the two parties'
        PAA devices to communicate with each other in this regard. In one embodiment, the
        applicant's E15 in Figure 11 PAA-device E9 in Figure 11 may emit or broadcast (e.g.
        transmit) a particular (e.g. wireless) data info signal via a (at least one)
        communication network (or internet) E24 in Figure 11, and the verifier's verifying-PAA
        device E5 in Figure 11 may receive (and/or acknowledge). In another embodiment,
        the verifier's E8 in Figure 11 verifying-PAA device may initiate and/or broadcast the
        data info signal and/or both parties' PAA devices may, simultaneously. In yet another
        embodiment, either or both PAA devices may, preferably, only broadcast the data info
        signal when one or both of the PAA devices recognises that it is, or they are, in a
        position within the vicinity of the other PAA device, and/or the scheduled verification
        session appointment position E30 in Figure 11.
        [00275] Step G11 is optional. In step G11 the verifier's E8 in Figure 11 verifying-PAA
        may automatically initiate a user (interface) option on the verifier's verifying-PAA
        device E5 in Figure 11.
        [00276] Following (recognised) detection of an applicant's E15 in Figure 11 PAA
        device E9 in Figure 11, in accordance with the description in step G10, the verifier's
        verifying-PAA may 'anticipate' an impending verification session. This anticipation
        may cause the verifier's verifying-PAA to convey and/or present an option (for
        selection) to the verifier, not limited to, for example, the following question:
        [00277]             '(An applicant device is in the vicinity,) do you wish to undertake a
        verification?'
        [00278] In step G12 the verifier E8 in Figure 11 may cause their verifying-PAA to
        begin a verification session.
        [00279] The verifier E8 in Figure 11 may activate (or select) a verifying-PAA-related
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                             47
        'button' on, or via, their verifying-PAA device E5 in Figure 11 or undertake some other
        (series of) action(s) to (essentially) answer, or respond with a, 'yes' to the question
        described in step G11.
        [00280] In step G13 the verifier's E8 in Figure 11 verifying-PAA device E5 in Figure
         11 may begin conveying verification session instructions.
        [00281] The proceeding flowchart steps in Figure 12 (i.e. G14 to G16) describe one
        embodied structured order, although other permutations are contemplated to achieve
        the same or similar outcome.
        [00282] Two main types of verifications may be considered as occurring in the
        following flowchart steps:
              (i)          device verifications; and
              (ii)          human verifications.
        [00283] A breakdown of these two types are as follows:
        (i)              Device verifications: between verifier's and applicant's PAA devices.
                                    Throughout the verification process (and moments before) each
                                    party's PAA device may interact with the other parties' PAA device.
                                    Each parties' PAA may continually and simultaneously assess for
                                    authenticity, for example, not limited to, assessing if the other
                                    parties' PAA is genuine, untampered with and is running or
                                    operating exactly as designed or intended.
                                    Further, a log of all (important) interactions (or system events) may
                                    be recorded on each of the parties', respective, PAA devices. Five,
                                    non-exhaustive, examples of log events are as follows:
        (1)              Verifier's and/or applicant's PAA device detects the other party's PAA device
                         (e.g. in proximity).
        (2)              Verifier's verifying-PAA successfully initiated a verification session with
                         applicant's PAA. The log event may read:
        -                Verifier [ID number] initiated verification with Applicant [Profile Account
                         unique ID number 0123456789 AUSNSWDL]; or, preferably
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                               48
        -                Verifier [ID number] initiated verification with Applicant [Profile Account
                         (pseudonymous) random unique number B9876543210K].
        (3)              Verifier's          verifying-PAA has         received      confirmation     that
                                               applicant's left eye (iris) has been scanned and is 'good';
        (4)              Verifier's          verifying-PAA has         received      confirmation     that
                                               applicant's face and earprint has been captured and is
                                               'good'.
        (5)              Verifier's          verifying-PAA has         received      confirmation     that
                                            applicant's left thumb (1st digit) fingerprint has been scanned
                                            and is 'bad';
                                            Note:     refer to Figure 14 Pseudonymise applicant (or
                                            account holder) (id)entity [F] for further description on a
                                            (prospective)     applicant's    (or account    holder's)   'Profile
                                            Account's unique ID number' and 'unique (random) number'
                                            (i.e. pseudonymous number).
                          Note:              'good' may indicate meeting or exceeding the (e.g. recognition)
'threshold', and 'bad' below 'threshold'.
        (ii)             Human verifications: verifier sights applicant and applicant's presented
                         materials.
                                    This type of verification typically relates to the verifier witnessing or
                                    sighting (e.g. comparing and/or contrasting):
        -                the applicant and the applicant's 'seed' (e.g. surveillance) capture data info
        -                the applicant's originals (e.g. hardcopies) and PAA-inputted data info (e.g.
                         softcopy) of their (ID document) particulars
                          Note:       the verifier may be aided during this ID document sighting process by
                                    the use of third party devices such as ID document authentication
                                    devices (or document scanners).
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   49
        [00284] In step G14 the applicant E15 in Figure 11 is informed (and required) to
        capture (or scan) El 1 in Figure 11. The applicant performs the captures (or scans) as
        necessary.
        [00285] At Step G15 Verifier Views (And/Or Listens To) Applicant's Seed
        (Surveillance) Capture Data.
        [00286] Seed (surveillance) capture data compared/contrasted against in person
        applicant E12.
        [00287] F19 verifier confirms 'seed' capture data matches in person applicant
        [00288] Only 'seed' capture data (originating from an applicant's device) may be
        'played back', e.g. if 'seed' capture data consisted or comprised of audio and/or visual
        surveillance, then that recorded surveillance data may be played back during this
        step so that the verifier may confirm (at least with the recorded visual surveillance)
        that the in person applicant is in fact the party represented in the surveillance
        recording(s).
        [00289] Seed capture data (which originated from an applicant's device) may also be
        converted (in real-time) from the abovementioned surveillance data to characteristic
        data Profile Account files for analysis. This is similarly described in Error! Reference
        source not found. Error! Reference source not found.
        [00290] Therefore, the applicant's (or, later, the account holder's) Profile Account App
        may have at least two 'streams' of 'seed' data contributed to, and stored in, their
        Profile Account, being: (i) (surveillance) capture data which can be played back, and
        (ii) characteristic data Profile Account files derived from (surveillance) capture data
        which typically cannot be converted back into surveillance data for playback.
        [00291] Verifier's App and associated device may control the surveillance capture
        data that is played back by the applicant's device. For example, the verifier App may
        have the feature or option to cause the applicant's App to randomly play one or more
        surveillance capture data files. The surveillance capture data that is played back in
        this instance may be part or all of a particular 'seed' capture session of the
        applicant's. For example, a 'chair swivel capture' at home may be a 15-30 second
        capture session. All or part of this session may be played back to the verifier on or via
        the applicant's device for the verifier to watch and/or listen. The verifier, ultimately, is
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   50
        meant to compare/contrast the played back recording of the applicant to the in person
        applicant.
        [00292] Another preferred embodiment of this invention is the inability for any party to
        amend, alter, edit or compromise in any way the data info stored or contributed
        towards a Profile Account data info set (or file), including by an account holder with
        respect to their own data info (following the first verification). Should their particulars
        change, then it may be required (or necessary) for an applicant (or account holder) to
        go through (part of) the verification process again.
        [00293] However, it may be permitted for an account holder to delete data files (e.g. a
        logged event) for whatever reason, but that may be a feature with limitations, and
        may be the only modification rights an account holder may have, or any party
        (including the developers of these software products) to amend, alter or edit a Profile
        Account's contributed data info.
        [00294] Figure 14 is a flowchart process describing how a (prospective) applicant's
        (or account holder's) identity may be withheld or pseudonymised (kept private) during
        the course of their Profile Account's existence, i.e. when forming, building/refining or
        using their Profile Account.
        [00295] In step J01 the applicant's (or account holder's), preferably, government
        issued ID document number is caused to be entered, or inputted, into their Profile
        Account (PAA), e.g. 0123456789.
        [00296] In step J02 the applicant may cause their ID document's type (e.g. Driver
        License), 'Issued by' (e.g. Australia, or AUS), 'Place of Issue' (e.g. New South Wales,
        or NSW) and so on (herein 'Type Code') to be entered, or inputted, into their Profile
        Account (PAA), e.g. AUSNSWDL. This step may be performed (semi-) automatically
        by their PAA should, for example, the ID document data info that is entered, or
        inputted, be related to, or from, an (original) softcopy version (that was sourced from
        a CRRR party),
        i.e. was not a digital scan of a hardcopy original.
        [00297] In step J03 the ID document number (from step J01) may be combined, or
        associated, with its Type Code (from step J02), automatically by the PAA,
        e.g. 0123456789AUSNSWDL.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                 51
        [00298] In step J04 the combined ID document number and Type Code (from step
        J03), i.e. 0123456789AUSNSWDL, may then become, or form, the applicant's Profile
        Account's (private) unique ID number.
        [00299] In step J05 a random number is generated, e.g. B9876543210K, which may
        form the applicant's Profile Account's (public) unique ID number. Despite the term
        'public' being used, this random number is, preferably, only disclosed to CRRR
        parties such as those described in step J07.
        [00300] In step J06 two principal processes happen. The first is the unique Profile
        Account ID number (from step J03), i.e. 0123456789AUSNSWDL, being associated
        in the applicant's Profile Account (PAA) with the random number generated (from
        step J05), i.e. B9876543210K. The second is the Profile Account unique ID number
        being split into (ordered, encrypted) packets for communication to independent
        CRRR parties. Step J06 in Figure 14 illustrates one method of splitting, and
        sequentially assigning a number (or character) to a packet. Each (ordered) packet is
        then assigned to the unique (random) generated number, i.e. B9876543210K, so
        each packet (when later separated) may later be recognised as being associated.
        [00301] In step J07 each packet (from step J06) is individually communicated to
        separate, preferably, CRRR parties to hold (in storage on their database computing
        systems, for example). In this Figure 14 flowchart scenario five groups are depicts to
        each receive a single packet. Each party may recognise (or determine) that their
        packet of data info relates to, or is associated with, B9876543210K, the generated
        unique (random) number. However, no party (individually) is able to derive any further
        significant data info from the packet it received. Hence, the pseudonymity
        arrangement. [00302] Types of preferred CRRR parties that may represent one or
        more of the five groups would include privacy foundations, civil liberty advocacy
        groups or other similar organisations or councils.
        [00303] In step J08 two principal processes may happen. The first is this step may
        eventuate in response to a justifiable need, following preferably (judicial) due process,
        to reveal the identity and, thus, the entity, associated with a Profile Account. One
        method of revealing the identity is by combining (al) the ordered packets from each
        group (from step J07). A government body or authority, for example, may first obtain
        a (court) warrant, for example, causing each group to communicate its held packet to
        the government authority, e.g. Police. Once the Police has obtained all packets they
        may be unpacked ('reconstituted') to reveal the Profile Account's unique ID numbers.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                      52
        This number, correspondingly, represents an ID document number and Type Code of
        an identity associated with an account holder (entity) which the Police may be
        pursuing. The second process is, should one or more of the groups (unnecessarily)
        access, managed or communicate its packet to another party (or unauthorised
        device), whether or not for purpose described in the first process, the account holder
        may          be       notified. Numerous methods are contemplated    to   facilitate this
        communication, e.g. one method may be an 'auto-trigger' function 'built into' each
        packet, and once handled in a particular manner made open a communication
        channel leading to the transmission of a data info signal that may (in)directly be
        communicated to one or more of the account holder's (participating) devices.
        [00304] In step J09 the Police, described in the previous step, may cause the ID
        document number and Type Code to be entered, or inputted, in one or more
        (e.g. government) databases for querying. This may then result in identifying the
        identity associated with the ID document number and Type Code.
        [00305] Figure 15 is a block diagram of one embodiment of a networked computing
        environment to facilitate a (virtual) Profile Account (PAA) verification session (or
        process) K100 (e.g. an online audiovisual and data conference) to officially link or
        associated an applicant's 'seed' (capture and characteristic) data info. The verification
        session is coordinated and/or witnessed by, preferably, a CRRR party (e.g. a public
        servant such as a Police officer or Passport Office government employee).
        [00306] K01 may represent the applicant, participating in a virtual verification session
        K100. The applicant's K01 position (time/location) during the virtual verification
        session may be applicable to the successful facilitation and/or completion of the
        session. This is described further in Figure 16 Correlate entity with identity,
        authenticate ID documents [D].
        [00307] K02 may represent the applicant's K01 left hand, palm and/or digits (fingers
        and/or thumb).
        [00308] K03 may represent the applicant's K01 right hand, palm and/or digits (fingers
        and/or thumb).
        [00309] K04 may represent one or more capture fields of view (or sensor range
        boundaries) of one or more capture device(s) K06.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    53
        [00310] K50A may represent the applicant's K01 Profile Account (PAA) K50A
        installed, running and stored on one or more computing devices such as those
        depicted in Figure 15, e.g. 'smart' device K09 and/or computing devices K05 or K70,
        and those not depicted which may be 'smart' fashion/(wearable) health tech C008 in
        Figure 4.
        [00311] Therefore, PAA K50A may represent any of those before mentioned devices,
        with the converging/emerging arrows (not limited to, K41, K42 and K43) representing
        (input and/or output) data info (network communication) connections to and/or from
        various other devices, eg, not limited to:
        [00312]             peripheral computing devices   such     as  speaker   K07    and/or
        camera/microphone K06;
        [00313] computing devices such as the (at least one) computing device K80 via (at
        least one) communication network (or internet) K60G; and/or
        [00314] another party's (e.g. verifier's) similar Profile Account (PAA) K50V via the (at
        least one) communication network (or internet) K60.
        [00315] In one embodiment, the arrows in Figure 16 (e.g. communication links, not
        limited to, K41, K42 and K43) may be the same as, or similar to, communication link
        F1 55 in Figure 7, and/or that described for C60 in Figure 4.
        [00316] K50V may represent the verifier's K21 verifying-Profile Account (verifying
        PAA) K50V. Besides it being a verifying version of the PAA it otherwise corresponds
        to a similar configuration as described for the applicant's KO1 Profile Account (PAA)
        K50A, in that it, too, has converging/emerging arrows (not limited to, K45)
        representing (input and/or output) data info (network communication) connections to
        and/or from various other devices, eg, not limited to:
        [00317] peripheral computing devices such as speaker K30, camera K27 and/or
        microphone K32;
        [00318] computing devices such as the (at least one) computing device K70 via (at
        least one) communication network (or internet) K60, and/or
        [00319] another party's (e.g. applicant's) Profile Account (PAA) K50A via the (at least
        one) communication network (or internet) K60.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    54
        [00320] K05 may represent one or more computer monitors K05, which may be used,
        for example, to facilitate a video feed for the verification session (or online
        conference) K100, i.e. convey visual instructions originating from the applicant's K01,
        verifier's K21 and/or third party's (e.g. 'Registry's') PAA-device such as 'smart' device
        K09, K25, or (at least one) computing device K70, respectively; and/or graphical
        and/or textual instructions displayed by the verifier's computer monitor K29 and
        captured by the verifier's capture device K27.
        [00321] The computer monitor may be a touch screen device and, thus, have one or
        more input/output data info connections or links to the applicant's Profile Account
        (PAA) K50A.
        [00322] Further, computer monitor K05 may also be part of a computing environment
        (e.g. laptop, desktop or tablet computer) which may be the same as, or similar to,
        computing device C003 in Figure 4, and may have modules, or conform to a
        computing design, the same as, or similar to, the generic device (or component), i.e.
        computing environment F200, depicted in, and described for, Figure 7.
        [00323] K06 may represent the applicant's K01 one or more (e.g. surveillance, such
        as camera and/or microphone) capture devices which may be the same as, or similar
        to, head-mounted camera & microphone C001 or C007 in Figure 4 (which is not
        depicted on the applicant's K01 head in this Figure 15 scene), security camera &
        microphone C004 or C005 in Figure 4, or 'smart' phone C002 or C006 in Figure 4;
        and may have modules, or conform to a computing design, the same as, or similar to,
        the generic devices depicted in, and described for, Figure 6 and/or Figure 7. K06 may
        also be (a component of) a robot or autonomous vehicle.
        [00324] In another embodiment, these capture devices K06 (and computing
        monitor/device K05) may be housed separately or in the one housing; and may
        (each) have an output data info connection or link to the applicant's Profile Account
        (PAA) K50A.
        [00325] Despite an embodiment where capture device K06 may, instead, be
        embedded and/or integrated into 'smart' device K09, it is a preferred embodiment that
        it is not, rather it be a separate device in order for capture device K06 to better
        capture the applicant K01 performing captures (or scans) with (or on) their 'smart'
        device, for example, not limited to, fingerprint scanning. In other words, capture
        device K06 being housed separately to 'smart' device K09 would allow the capture
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    55
        device K06 to capture all required subjects in the capture device's frame, its field of
        view or sensor range boundaries K04.
        [00326] K07 may represent an audio output device such as a speaker, which may be
        used, for example, to facilitate an audio feed for the verification session (or online
        conference) K100, i.e. convey audio instructions originating from the applicant's K01,
        verifier's K21 and/or third party's (e.g. 'Registry's') PAA-device such as 'smart' device
        K09, K25, or (at least one) computing device K70, respectively; and/or verbal
        instructions K24 originating from the verifier. The speaker may have an input data info
        connection or link to the applicant's Profile Account (PAA) K50A.
        [00327] K08 may represent the applicant's K01, or a third party's, (flatbed) digital
        (document) scanner, which may be (in)directly connected K43 for inputting the
        scanned data info to the applicant's Profile Account (PAA) K50A.
        [00328] K09 may represent the applicant's K01 'smart' device, which may be the
        same as, or similar to, 'smart' phone C002 or C006 in Figure 4, and may have
        modules, or conform to a computing design, the same as, or similar to, the generic
        device depicted in, and described for, Figure 7. Although, not depict in, or described
        for, Figure 7, 'smart' device K09 may also have embedded and/or integrated into its
        housing a fingerprint scanner device (or component).
        [00329] K10 may represent the applicant's K01 voice projections (e.g. sound waves)
        the same as, or similar to, those depicted in, and described for, voice projections
        E120 in Figure 8. The voice projections may be captured by microphone K06 and/or
        the 'smart' device's K09 microphone.
        [00330] K60 the (at least one) communications network (or internet) K60 may be the
        same as, or similar to, communications networks (or internet) C60 in Figure 4, E60 in
        Figure 8 and/or E24 in Figure 11.
        [00331] K60G the (at least one) communication network (or internet) K60G may be
        the same as, or similar to, communication network (or internet) K60.
        [00332] A fundamental reason for depicting K60G separately to K60 is to illustrate a
        preferred embodiment, i.e. that the (at least one) communication network (or internet)
        K60G may be a (dedicated and/or) secure (private) government communication
        network, which facilitates, for example, an encrypted (virtual private network) data
        info connection between one or more applicant K01 devices (via a communications
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   56
        link such as K42) and the (at least one) computing device K80 (via communications
        link such as K47).
        [00333] The (at least one) computing device K80 may represent the government's
        (remotely located), (central), (database) server.
        [00334] In another embodiment, both the (at least one) communication network (or
        internet) K60 and K60G may communicate via one or more communications link such
        as K44.
        [00335] In yet another embodiment, both the (at least one) communication network
        (or internet) K60 and K60G may, instead, be integrated, i.e. 'one cloud'.
        [00336] K70 may represent a (remotely located central) server and/or storage backup
        device, e.g. for an applicant's Profile Account (PAA). For simplicity, the (at least one)
        computing device K70 may represent numerous, and separately housed and
        operated (and network connected K46) computing devices owned/operated by
        different parties. An exemplary embodiment is that the (at least one) computing
        device K70 is not a device being shared by the applicant K01 and the 'Registry' (or
        other non-family third party of the applicant's). Therefore, owned/operated by either
        one party or the other. [00337] K80 the (at least one) computing device K80 may
        represent the government's, or another third party's, (remotely located), (central),
        (database) server. A server may facilitate the identity (ID) document authentication
        process such as cross-referencing an applying entity's (e.g. applicant's K01)
        uploaded ID documents (e.g. digital scan files of hardcopies and/or digital files of
        softcopies) against/with, preferably, government databases consisting or comprising
        of digital (or softcopy) versions of (previously) issued identity documents (by that
        same government and/or another).
        [00338] In one embodiment,          ID document database query results may be
        communicated back to the applying entity (e.g. applicant K01) via communications
        links K47 and K42, and the (at least one) communication network (or internet) K60G
        to the applying entity's Profile Account (PAA) K50A.
        [00339] K21 may represent the participating virtual verification session K100 verifying
        party (or verifier), which may be the same, or similar, verifier as described for verifier
        E8 in Figure 11.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  57
        [00340] The verifier's K21 position (time/location) during the virtual verification
        session K100 may be applicable to the successful facilitation and/or completion of the
        session. This is described further in Figure 19 Virtually verify Profile Account: officially
        link 'seed' PAA data info [F].
        [00341] K22 may represent the verifier's K21 left hand, palm and/or digits (fingers
        and/or thumb).
        [00342] K23 may represent the verifier's K21 right hand, palm and/or digits (fingers
        and/or thumb).
        [00343] K24 may represent the verifier's K21 voice projections (e.g. sound waves) the
        same as, or similar to, those depicted in, and described for, voice projections E120 in
        Figure 8 and/or the applicant's K01 voice projections K10 in Figure 15. The voice
        projections may be captured by microphone K32 and/or the 'smart' device's K25
        microphone.
        [00344] K25 may represent the verifier's K21 'smart' device K25, which may be the
        same as, or similar to, the applicant's KO1 'smart' device K09.
        [00345] K26 may represent a separately housed (e.g. stand-alone) input peripheral
        device such as a keyboard and (e.g. multi-touch) trackpad K26 for one or more
        computing devices such as 'smart' device K25.
        [00346] In another embodiment, the keyboard and/or touchpad K26 may be
        embedded and/or integrated into the 'smart' device K25.
        [00347] K27 may represent the verifier's K21 one or more (e.g. surveillance, such as
        camera and/or microphone) capture devices which may be the same as, or similar to,
        the applicant's K01 capture device K06; with a difference being capture device K27
        may, in one embodiment, be embedded and/or integrated into 'smart' device K25.
        [00348] Depicted in Figure 15 is the verifier's K21 capture device K27 capturing
        monitor K29, rather than the verifier. Though, the capture device may have in another
        embodiment the verifier in the field of view K28, and/or another capture device (not
        separately shown) may instead capture the verifier.
        [00349] K28 may represent one or more capture fields of view (or sensor range
        boundaries) of one or more capture device(s) K27.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    58
        [00350] In one embodiment, computer monitor K29 is positioned within one of the
        capture fields K28 so displayed graphics or text, for example, on the monitor may be
        captured by capture device K27.
        [00351] K29 may represent one or more computer monitors K29, the same as, or
        similar to, the applicant's K01 monitor K05; and may be used, for example, to display
        graphics or text during the verification session (or online conference) K100, i.e.
        convey visual instructions originating from either the verifier's K21 and/or third party's
        (e.g. 'Registry's') PAA-device such as 'smart' device K25 and/or (at least one)
        computing device K70, respectively.
        [00352] The computer monitor K29 may be a touch screen device and, thus, have
        one or more input/output data info connections or links to the verifier's Profile Account
        (PAA) K50V.
        [00353] In one embodiment, the monitor K29 may not be housed separately; instead,
        embedded and/or integrated into the 'smart' device's K25 housing (otherwise, be the
        'smart' device's monitor).
        [00354] K30 may represent an audio output device such as a speaker K30, the same
        as, or similar to, the applicant's K01 speaker K07; and may be used, for example, to
        facilitate an audio feed for the verification session (or online conference) K100 such
        as convey the applicant's voice projections K10. The speaker may have an input data
        info connection or link to the verifier's Profile Account (PAA) K50V.
        [00355] In one embodiment, the speaker K30 may not be housed separately; instead,
        embedded and/or integrated into the 'smart' device's K25 housing.
        [00356] K31 may represent one or more computer monitors K31, the same as, or
        similar to, monitor K29 and/or K05; and may be used, for example, to display the
        video feed of the verification session (or online conference) K100 and/or convey
        visual instructions originating from either the verifier's K21 and/or third party's (e.g.
        'Registry's') PAA-device such as 'smart' device K25 and/or (at least one) computing
        device K70, respectively.
        [00357] K32 may represent a separately housed (stand-alone) microphone K32 the
        same as, or similar to, microphone K06.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    59
        [00358] In another embodiment, microphone K32 (and capture device K27) may be
        housed together; and may (each) have an output data info connection or link to the
        verifier's Profile Account (PAA) K50V.
        [00359] Figure 16 depicts a summarised process of: (i) a prospective applicant's
        (PA's) uploaded ID documents being authenticated, e.g. confirming that the ID
        documents are legitimate and that they are all related to, or of, the same identity; and
        (ii) an example of how a prospective applicant (i.e. an entity) may be verified as
        corresponding with, or to, the entity represented by the identity (ID) documents. In
        other words, Figure 16 describes an example process to confirm that the prospective
        applicant is the identified party in the ID documents and that the ID documents are
        genuine. Further, the Figure 16 process: (i) references the block diagram of Figure
         15, and (ii) is later described within Figure 19 to show where the activities of Figure
         16 may fit in with the broader (virtual) verification process.
        [00360] In step Li the PA L100, or K01 in Figure 15, (sources and) inputs/uploads
        their ID documents into their Profile Account (PAA) L200, or K50A in Figure 15. This
        step is described (more fully) in steps D7 and D8 in Figure 5.
        [00361] With reference to Figure 15, the PA K01 may utilise scanner K08 to scan their
        ID document hardcopies into softcopies, and the resulting softcopy data info files may
        be transferred and/or transmitted to the PA's Profile Account (PAA) K50A installed,
        and running, on their (participating) device such as their 'smart' phone K09 via
        communications link K43.
        [00362] In step L2 the PA's L100 Profile Account (PAA) L200 receives and
        contributes the inputted/uploaded data info.
        [00363] In step L3 the PA's L100 Profile Account (PAA) L200 may query for
        correlation any or all of the PA's capture and/or characteristic data info (e.g. facial
        captures, fingerprint and/or earprint scans) against/with the corresponding ID
        document data info (particularly, any photos and/or biometric data info).
        [00364] In step L4 the PA's L100 Profile Account (PAA) L200 may return results of
        the step L3 queries.
        [00365] Provided the query results in step L4 are interpreted as meeting or exceeding
        the defined 'threshold' of correlation, then in step L5 the PA's L100 Profile Account
        (PAA) L200 uploads L5 (i.e. transfers and/or transmits) the step Li inputted/uploaded
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  60
        ID document data info to (at least one) ID document authentication server L300, or (at
        least one) computing device K80 in Figure 15, via a secure (at least one)
        communication network (or internet) K60G in Figure 15 and (any) communication
        links K42 and K47 in Figure 15.
        [00366] If all inputted/uploaded ID documents in step Li were softcopy originals (not
        softcopies of hardcopy ID documents) and if those ID document softcopies were
        receive from respective issuing bodies (or prescribed CRRR parties) then uploading
        to a server for authentication may not be necessary. Therefore, steps L4 and L5 may
        be optional steps, unless the PA also, or only, inputted/uploaded softcopy versions of
        previously hardcopy ID documents.
        [00367] It is an exemplary embodiment that the ID document authentication server
        L300 is a government owned and/or operated system.
        [00368] In step L6 the ID document database (e.g. government) server L300, or K80
        in Figure 15, receives the uploaded ID document data info and (preferably,
        autonomously) queries, i.e. undertakes authentication process(es).
        [00369] In one embodiment , the ID document database (e.g. government) server
        L300 may compare and contrast the uploaded ID documents with versions stored in
        the (original source) database. For example, the authentication process may utilise a
        pixel correlation method (e.g. tones, colours, order) to determine a match. This
        method may be sufficient enough to not require the use of biometrics.
        [00370] In some preferred embodiments, to counter identity fraud or address an entity
        (i.e. the PA) attempting to utilise (and upload for authentication) another entity's
        identity (ID) documents, the system may employ one or more of the following:
        [00371] In one embodiment, should the (government) server L300, or K80 in Figure
         15, recognise that the PA's uploaded ID documents have already been uploaded
        before, e.g. already assigned to another PA (or account holder), then the system may
        'flag' this applying PA's Profile Account (PAA), e.g. halt further verifications, not
        activate this entity's allegedly fraudulent Profile Account, notify the authorities (e.g.
        Police) and the account holder (or other applicant) whose identity may have been
        threatened, and perhaps also suspend that account holder's (or applicant's) Profile
        Account (PAA) until the matter has been resolved.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                         61
        [00372] If the actual owner, or rightful entity, of the identity (i.e. of the ID documents
        being stolen) does not already have a Profile Account, nor intends to seek one-then
        the uploaded ID documents will not return a database server plurality query result.
        Therefore, a non-exhaustive list of embodiments may address this issue:
        [00373]            (i) When an ID document is used (i.e. uploaded) for the application (or
        authentication) process a correspondence (e.g. posted letter) is sent out to the
        entity's (e.g. residential) address detailed on that ID document; and/or
        [00374] (ii) Preferably, an ID document is not only detailed by, or associated with,
        one correspondence method such as a (residential) postal address, but also one or
        more electronic (or virtual) addresses (e.g. email, instant or social networking site
        messenger) or contact phone numbers (e.g. mobile phone). Therefore, when an ID
        document is used in the application (or authentication) process and it is (also)
        associated with one or more electronic methods of contacting the actual entity, one or
        more of those contact methods may be utilised to notify the entity.
        [00375] The recipient (i.e. ID document entity) of the above two examples would then
        have the opportunity to confirm if they did in fact apply to have their ID documents
        authenticated-in the pursuit of an activated Profile Account.
        [00376] It is a preferred embodiment that the entity (e.g. recipient) also be required to
        respond before the applying entity's uploaded ID documents are eligible to complete
        the authentication process. One method of responding is by the notified entity being
        required to send (in)directly a code to the (government) server which was disclosed in
        the posted letter, the email and/or sms text message. Numerous methods of sending
        the code are contemplated. In one method the code is sent back as a reply email. In
        another method, the notification email may have contained a hyperlink which when
        activated causes a reply to be sent via a web browser (protocol).
        [00377]            (iii) In addition to the above two embodiments, should a mobile phone
        number be associated with an ID document, that number may be queried against/with
        the database of subscribed consumers held by the telecommunication company (or
        carrier) which is the service provider for that mobile phone number. Results of the
        query may confirm if that number is associated with (in the carrier's records) a
        consumer corresponding with an identity the same as that detailed in the uploaded ID
        document being authenticated.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                         62
        [00378] (iv) In yet another embodiment, a website portal or forum where concerned
        people may enter any of their ID document particulars (or numbers) into the search
        field to return a result, that is, whether any of their ID documents have been used to
        form (i.e. activate) a Profile Account. If so, and if not due to the actions of the
        enquiring person, then the system may 'flag' the allegedly fraudulent Profile Account
        (PAA), as similarly described above, notify the Police and the account holder (or
        applicant) whose Profile Account (PAA) may have been obtained fraudulently, and
        perhaps also suspend that account holder's (or applicant's) Profile Account (PAA)
        until the matter has been resolved.
        [00379] It is preferred that before the system 'flags' a suspect Profile Account
        following a positive result by an enquiring person, that that person be required to
        (more fully) prove their identity, so unwarranted actions are not caused.
        [00380]            (v) Alternatively or additionally, a 'preventative' website portal may be
        employed where an interested party may enter required details of their ID documents
        (plus contact information) into online form field(s), to set up an automatic notification
        to that party. In the event any of the ID documents entered are later (attempted to be)
        used to form (i.e. activate) a Profile Account, the party may be notified.
        [00381] In step L7 the (government) server L300, or K80 in Figure 15, may issue
        results of the authentication process back to the PA's L100, or K01 in Figure 15,
        Profile Account (PAA) L200, or K50A in Figure 15 such as a 'pass' or 'fail' notification.
        [00382] The data info signal to the PA's Profile Account (PAA) device(s) from the
        (government) server may be facilitated, e.g. communicated (transferred and/or
        transmitted), using the same, or similar, methods and infrastructure as used, and
        described, for the process of uploading to the (government server) from the PA's
        Profile Account (PAA) device(s).
        [00383] In step L8 the PA's L100, or K01 in Figure 15 Profile Account (PAA) L200, or
        K50A in Figure 15 receives and processes the ID document authentication results
        (i.e. the determination) from the (government) server L300, or K80 in Figure 15.
        [00384] In step L9 PA's L100, or K01 in Figure 15 Profile Account (PAA) L200, or
        K50A in Figure 15 conveys the results to the PA. For example, if a 'pass' result was
        obtained the ID document authentication process is complete. The PA may now be
        eligible to have their Profile Account (PAA) verified. For further description on the
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                               63
        (virtual) verification process refer to Figure 19 Virtually verify Profile Account: officially
        link 'seed' PAA data info [F].
        [00385]                Figure        17     depicts    a     diagram      which     illustrates  the
        interactions/activities/exchange events that happen during the verification conference.
        These events are deliberately designed to achieve particular outcomes, with such
        outcomes helping to assess whether the verification session is being conducted (or
        performed) to a high standard of creditability, reliability and integrity. These
        occurrences are designed to 'test' the system frequently, if not constantly for
        irregularities.
        [00386] All interactions an applicant's Profile Account (PAA) devices has with a
        verifying party's and/or other third party's device (e.g. a 'Registry' server), and vice
        versa, can be considered like 'moments of truth', i.e. opportunities for a genuine
        version of the involved software (e.g. PAA) running on any of those devices to assess
        the genuineness of the involved software running on any of the other devices. In
        other words, the software programs (e.g. verifying-PAA or applicant's PAA) regularly
        (if not continually) scrutinise each other to confirm that they are operating as per the
        official design, intents and purposes.
        [00387] Some example embodiments of 'scrutinising' events (when they may occur)
        are described as follows:
        [00388] (i)                   applicant scheduling an appointment with the 'verification system'
        [00389] (ii)                  'verification system' confirming that applicant's PAA meets or exceeds
         'threshold'
        [00390] (iii)                  'verification system' confirming that applicant's PAA has completed the
        ID document authentication process
        [00391] (iv)                'verification system' confirming with (government) ID document
        authentication server that the applicant did 'pass' the ID document authentication
        process and that the applicant's PAA 'passed' genuineness 'handshakes' throughout
        the time the applicant's PAA was interacting with the (government) ID document
        authentication server.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    64
        [00392] (v) 'verification system' providing a reminder to the applicant's PAA about
        impending verification conference, and the applicant's PAA sending back a
        corresponding reply.
        [00393] (vi) 'verification system' initiative a count-down timer on the applicant's PAA,
        and the applicant's PAA sending back a corresponding reply.
        [00394] (vii) 'verification system' querying the applicant's PAA, and/or the applicant's
        PAA on its own accord (based on a predefined time before scheduled appointment),
        to ensure all necessary devices (and their specifications) meet or exceed that
        specified or stipulated for the verification conference.
        [00395] (viii) 'verification system' only accepting conference calls from authorised
        (genuine) applicants, and/or applicant PAA only able to connect, dial and/or engage
        with a genuine 'verification system' for the purpose of performing (or completing) a
        verification session.
        [00396] (ix) 'verification system' receiving feedback from applicant's PAA informing
        the 'verification system' that the applicant's biometrics being captured (as instructed
        or directed by the verification 'questions') are consistent with the biometrics captured
        since the applicant began forming their Profile Account.
        [00397] For example, applicant may have been instructed to undertake (manual)
        captures (or scans) of their fingerprints by their PAA. Their PAA may have instructed
        the applicant to scan particular fingers, in a particular order. It may have been a
        requirement for the applicant to performing (or complete) these scans while being
        captured by another capture device such as a camera. The camera may have been
        able to capture in its field of view the applicant (e.g. the whole body and/or relevant
        parts) performing these scan activities. Such scan activities, and the particular fingers
        being scanned in an activity may lead to the production of Activity Profile
        characteristic data info. For example, the manner in which the applicant performs
        their fingerprint scans (with one or more particular fingers) may be a distinguishable
        event, behaviour and/or biometric metric. Then, when the 'verification system'
        instructs the applicant to perform a scan that the applicant's PAA has informed the
        'verification system' that the applicant has already completed (e.g. formed and/or
        built/refined) then if the applicant performs that scan activity correctly (as witnessed
        by a verifier) and the applicant's PAA provides feedback to the 'verification system'
        that such scan activity performed did correlate (or was recognised) as being within an
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  65
        acceptable (e.g. recognition) 'threshold' then this event may be considered another
        positive indication of credibility.
        [00398] (x) 'verification system' may confirm with applicant's PAA that all (conference
        participating) devices of the applicant's are geolocated (e.g. positioned) within
        feasible distances.
        [00399] (xi) 'verification system' may confirm with applicant's PAA the correlation
        between the current geolocation data info of the applicant's (conference-participating)
        devices and their geolocations when they captured one or more of the applicant's
        (Activity) Profiles (e.g. biometrics) that may be, or are being, performed for the
        verification session.
        [00400] If the applicant's PAA informs the 'verification system' that the (conference
        participating) capture devices of the applicants (or that the applicant is using) have
        not previously been geolocated where they current are during the verification session
        for past captures of the applicant, which were subsequently contributed to the
        applicant's Profile Account (PAA), then this may indicate unusual or suspicious
        circumstances, and cause for enquiry.
        [00401] (xii) 'verification system' may confirm with applicant's PAA that the applicant
        is the only entity in the their immediate vicinity, that no other person is likely to be
        captured (simultaneously) by the (conference-participating) capture devices.
        [00402] It may be an instruction to an applicant that a condition of the verification
        session is that they allocate themself to a space which is quiet and private, so they
        may not be disturbed during the verification session. It would preferred that the
        applicant situate themself in a closed room, to ensure they will not be disturbed
        during the process .
        [00403] Another embodiment is the provision granted to the applicant to conduct pre
        conference activities (e.g. 'warm-up' capture tests) on their own accord, i.e.
        unwitnessed by a verifier but still witnessed by the applicant's PAA. For example, the
        applicant may be instructed to perform particular (e.g. biometric) captures within the
        field or view or sensor range of a capture device such as a camera, and that the
        applicant may be informed that no other entity is to be present during these pre
        conference captures (the same as during the conference). The capture devices
        (running PRA) have the capabilities to recognise more than one entity (like the
        applicant). Should there be another human, for example, present in the capture
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    66
        vicinity then such data info would be represented in the 'tags' when contributed to the
        applicant's Profile Account (PAA). Thus, if the applicant did not follow the procedures
        of no other entities present then their PAA would know that, and would subsequently
        be conveyed to the 'verification system'. The applicant's PAA may inform the
        'verification system' if there has been any other entity present from beginning the pre
        conference captures up to the conference commencing and, then, if another entity is
        detected up until the end of the conference.
        [00404] (xiii) Does the applicant's mouth movements synch-up with the words being
        spoken my the (apparent) applicant?
        [00405] Not only can the verifier observe and judge this visual and audio syncing, but
        the applicant's PAA may, too. For example, (Activity) Profiles (manually) inputted into
        the applicant's Profile Account (PAA) by the applicant during the 'seed' stage may
        have lead to sufficient opportunity for capture devices to produce (Activity) Profile
        characteristic data info on, or of, the applicant when speaking. In other words, the
        applicant may have been captured with data info contributed which represents how
        the applicant speaks (e.g. bio-dynamics, social behaviour) when speaking particular
        words, phrases and so on. Thus, the applicant's PAA may inform the 'verification
        system' of the (percentage recognition accuracy) 'threshold' currently being
        calculated or experienced by the applicant's PAA. Should the 'threshold' decrease
        below a predefine value then this may indicate low correlation to the entity being
        captured to the entity previously captured for 'seed' data info.
        [00406] (xiv) 'verification system' may convey to the applicant's PAA whether the
        verifier is geolocated in an authorised or designated verifier location. For example,
        should the applicant's PAA receive data info from the (apparent) 'verification system'
        claiming that the verifier participating in the conference is located in an unsanctioned
        or unrecognised verifier location (without, of course, disclosing the verifier's location
        coordinates, for example, to the applicant's PAA) then this may be detected as a
        questionable or suspicious circumstance. Accordingly, appropriate action may be
        effected by the applicant's PAA such as concluding the conference prematurely, and
        then communicate a report of the incident automatically to the relevant bodies (e.g. a
        'Registry' server).
        [00407] (xv) 'verification system' may regularly (or continually) confirm (e.g.
        throughout the conference) whether the verifier entity participating in the verification
        conference is the, or a, Profile Account entity (or account holder) authorised to
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   67
        participate. The 'verification system' may communicate with the applicant's PAA any
        adverse updates, i.e. that the (apparent) participating verifier is not an authorised
        verifier causing the applicant's PAA to react accordingly. For example, the applicant's
        PAA may subsequently conclude the conference prematurely, and then communicate
        a report of the incident automatically to the relevant bodies (e.g. a 'Registry' server).
        [00408] (xvi) 'verification system' may convey a message (or 'question') to the
        applicant's PAA for the applicant to acknowledge (e.g. verbally to the verifier). Should
        the applicant respond with something other than the message conveyed, and/or a
        suitable answer or action, then the verifier may witness this and act accordingly,
        and/or the applicant's PAA and/or the 'verification system' may recognise this and
        react accordingly. Such (re)actions may include repeating the message, clarifying the
        message in another way, sending another (different) message, and/or prematurely
        concluding the conference, then communicating a report of the incident automatically
        to the relevant bodies (e.g. a 'Registry' server).
        [00409] (xvii) 'verification system' may regularly (or continually) assess the verifier's
        verifying-PAA device to ensure that it does not have connected, embedded and/or
        integrated in any way (peripheral) devices or components which may allow the
        (audiovisual) conference to be recorded. The verifying-PAA may be designed to have
        (complete) access to all computing communications of the device such as internal
        and/or external, inputted and/or outputted in order to make the assessments. Should
        the verifier's verifying-PAA device be detected as 'compromised' then the conference
        may be concluded prematurely, then a data info signal reporting the incident may
        automatically be communicated to the relevant bodies (e.g. a 'Registry' server) and,
        perhaps, the applicant's PAA.
        [00410] Alternatively, with the express informed consent of the applicant the
        conference may be recorded for training purposes. However, it would be a preferred
        embodiment that such provisions (hardware and/or software) be a configuration
        authorised, designed and/or installed by the authorised             'verification system'
        technicians. In other words, the verifier's verifying-PAA would, preferably, only be
        able to record the conference if verifying-PAA permitted it. It would be an exemplary
        embodiment to blatantly inform the applicant that such recording provisions were
        active or could potentially be activated, so the applicant may make an informed
        choice whether to participate any further in the conference, for example.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  68
        [00411] (xviii) 'verification system' may communicate with applicant's PAA to
        determine whether the applicant's PAA has interacted in a verification session before,
        either in person or virtual (online).
        [00412] Should the applicant's PAA convey one or more prior occasions particular
        measures may be implemented such as (the verifier instructed to) question the
        applicant accordingly and/or prematurely conclude the conference, then a data info
        signal reporting the incident may automatically be communicated to the relevant
        bodies (e.g. a 'Registry' server) and, perhaps, the applicant's PAA.
        [00413] (xix) Activities conducted during virtual (online) verification conference may
        be as follows:
        [00414] Verifier (or a pre-recorded message) using (or via) verifying-PAA conveys
        introductory information to the applicant (via the applicant's PAA) concerning the
        conference both parties have now engaged in.
        [00415] Applicant is instructed to undertake a particular capture (or scan).
        [00416] The instruction may originate from the verifier (or 'verification system ').
        [00417] The capture to undertake may be the applicant's left thumb (1st digit)
        fingerprint.
        [00418] The applicant may be conveyed this instruction via their (primary) PAA
        device.
        [00419] The applicant may undertake the fingerprint capture using their (secondary)
        PAA device, which is synchronised with 'primary' (conference-participating) PAA
        device.
        [00420] The applicant undertakes the capture in clear and unobstructed view of their
        primary PAA device's camera; this camera captures the applicant for the purpose of
        sending a (conference) video feed to the verifier, so the verifier may witness the
        applicant's fingerprint capture activity.
        [00421] The verifier ensures that the applicant captures the correct fingerprint, as
        instructed to the applicant.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    69
        [00422] Alternatively or additionally, the applicant's PAA device(s) may also witness
        this activity, i.e. evaluating past captures by this applicant of this particular finger
        being scanned.
        [00423] Should the applicant's PAA recognise that the activity was performed with
        close correlation with past captures then this may be conveyed to the verifier as
        another factor of authentication.
        [00424] This may be conveyed to the verifier in the form of a (e.g. recognition)
        'threshold' value with a green status indicator signalling a 'good' read, i.e. meets or
        exceeds 'threshold' value.
        [00425] Following the verifier receiving this fingerprint capture status determination,
        the
        'verification system' may then communicate a code to the applicant's fingerprint
        scanning (secondary) PAA device.
        [00426] The code may be conveyed by the secondary PAA device by displaying a
        code on, or via, the device.
        [00427] The applicant may then be instructed to present the displayed code to the
        verifier, by holding it up in view of the applicant's primary PAA device's camera.
        [00428] The correctly displayed code may be then be read by the verifier (and/or the
        'verification systems' OCR technology) and compared/contrasted against the code
        that was originally communicated by the verification system'.
        [00429] The correct code would help indicate to the verifier (and/or 'verification
        system') that the fingerprint scanning PAA device of the applicant's was being utilised
        for the subject fingerprint scan.
        [00430] This would form another factor of authentication. This process may apply
        similarly to other (e.g. biometric) captures (or scans) by the applicant.
        [00431] Figure 18 is a flowchart describing one embodiment of a process for reliably
        facilitating the witnessing of a verification capture (or scan) activity by an applicant.
        Further, this embodiment describes one example of a computer implemented system,
        method and data info signal to assist a verifier (and/or 'verification system ') to
        determine the genuineness of an applicant's participation in a verification session, i.e.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    70
        to better establish or confirm that it is the participating entity which is performing the
        captures (or scans) that are being recognised by the (apparently) involved PAA
        devices (in the possession of, or being used by, the applicant). Furthermore, the
        following flowchart describes a process which may be implemented for either an in
        person and/or virtual verification session. Some embodied variations between the two
        types of sessions are, however, described within each step.
        [00432] The process begins at step M1. At step M2 the verification session may
        commence, in contexts as (similarly) described in, or depicted for, in-person
        verification session E30 in Figure 11 and/or virtual (online) conference verification
        session K100 in Figure 15 (herein, respectively, referred to as 'in-person' and 'virtual'
        session).
        [00433] - In step M3 (for example, following any preceding verification session
        activities) the verifier (and/or 'verification system') may convey instructions to the
        applicant. Conveying such instructions for an in-person and virtual session may occur
        as follows:
        [00434] In-person: the verifier (e.g. E8 in Figure 11), reading from instructional
        information displayed on, or via, their verification device (e.g. E5 in Figure 11), may
        inform the applicant (e.g. E15 in Figure 11) to perform a particular capture (or scan)
        activity.
        [00435] In a preferred embodiment, the verifier's verifying-PAA device may
        communicate a data info signal to the applicant's PAA device for the purpose of
        preparing the applicant's PAA on the (relevant) applicant's device for the particular
        capture (or scan) activity being conveyed by the verifier.
        [00436] In another embodiment, the verifier may be instructed by the verifier's
        verifying-PAA device (following the data info signal being communicated to the
        applicant's PAA device) to confirm that the applicant's PAA device did receive the
        data info signal and is now properly displaying, for example, the particular capture (or
        scan) activity required to be performed. Displaying this activity may be in the form of a
        graphic image such as, for the required capture (or scan) of a particular fingerprint,
        highlighting a specific finger on an illustrated hand.
        [00437] Virtual: the verifier (e.g. K21 in Figure 15) and/or a 'Registry' server (e.g. K70
        in Figure 15) may cause the verifier's verifying-PAA (e.g. K50V in Figure 15) to
        communicate data info to one or more of the applicant's (e.g. K01 in Figure 15) PAA
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    71
        devices (e.g. K05 and/or K09 in Figure 15), via the applicant's PAA (e.g. K50A in
        Figure 15), which may then cause instructional information to be displayed on, or via,
        the applicant's PAA devices.
        [00438] In one embodiment the instructional information may be the same as, or
        similar to, the embodied example described in the in-person scenario, i.e. a graphic
        hand image with a highlighted finger. The applicant may then be informed to present
        the conveyed instruction (now being displayed on the applicant's device) to the
        verifier by having the applicant's device (e.g. K09 in Figure 15) captured by the
        applicant's camera (K06 in Figure 15). The verifier may then witness this displayed
        instruction on the applicant's device via the (online) conference video feed being
        displayed on the verifier's monitor (K31 in Figure 15).
        [00439] Applicant may be required to deliberately capture themself using, and to be
        stored (preferably, only) on, their device. The following may only be conducted (or
        may only count as being legitimately completed) if the verifier's App has first
        transmitted the required data signal to the applicant's App to mark the initiation of this
        step. This is to eliminate claims by the applicant that they had, while not being
        witnessed, 'just already completed' the following steps, because it would not count
        towards the following steps if they did do these captures without the verifier watching
        and/or listening. Therefore, this mechanism of first receiving the verifier's verifying
        PAA data info signal may ensure (or better control) the opportunity for the verifier to
        witness the applicant perform the required captures in the verifier's presence.
        [00440] In step M4 the applicant, accordingly, performs the instructed capture (or
        scan) activity. For example, the activity being conveyed may require the applicant to
        capture (or scan) a particular biometric feature such as their left thumb (1st digit)
        fingerprint. Performing such a capture (or scan) for an in-person and virtual session
        may occur as follows:
        [00441] In-person: the applicant (e.g. E15 in Figure 11) using their 'smart' device (e.g.
        E9 in Figure 11), which has embedded or integrate in it a fingerprint scanning module
        (or component), causes their left thumb to be scanned. The verifier (e.g. E8 in Figure
         11) witnesses this activity, ensuring that the correct finger's print is being scanned.
        [00442] Virtual: the applicant (e.g. K01 in Figure 15) using their 'smart' device (e.g.
        K09 in Figure 15), which has embedded or integrate in it a fingerprint scanning
        module (or component), causes their left thumb to be scanned. The verifier (e.g. K21
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   72
        in Figure 15) and applicant's (conference-participating) capture devices (e.g. K06 in
        Figure 15) witnesses or captures this activity. The verifier may witness this activity by
        viewing the video feed being display on, or via, their monitor (e.g. K31 in Figure 15),
        which is subsequently receiving the feed from the applicant's camera (e.g. K06 in
        Figure 15) that has captured the applicant perform the activity within the camera's
        field of view (or sensor range boundaries) (e.g. K04 in Figure 15). Correspondingly,
        the applicant's PAA (e.g. K50A in Figure 15) may 'witness' this activity by a camera
        (e.g. K06 in Figure 15) capturing within its field of view (or sensor range boundaries)
        (e.g. K04 in Figure 15) the applicant performing the activity.
        [00443] In step M5 the applicant's (e.g. El5 in Figure 11 or K01 in Figure 15) PAA
        (e.g. stored in, or on, K50A in Figure 15 or K09 in Figure 15) contributes
        characteristic data info by the (in-principle) process as described in, and depicted for,
        Figure 9. If the PAA contributed it means that the characteristic data info was relevant
        or of value to the applicant's PAA. In other words, the applicant's fingerprint scanned
        was recognised as being accurate, legitimate and/or representative of the entity's
        fingerprint that had been previously stored in, or on, the PAA's data info files as 'seed'
        characteristic data info.
        [00444] In step M6 the applicant's PAA in response to contributing data info during,
        and/or following, the verification session capture activity communicates a data info
        signal to the verifier's verifying-PAA device. This step may be implemented for an in
        person and virtual session as follows:
         [00447] Throughout the above captures (or scans) the verifier's verifying-PAA device
        may receive communicated data info signals from the applicant's PAA device. These
        data info signals may consist or comprise of summarised results or the outcome of
        the captures (or scans) or interactions as they are happening and/or after they have
        been completed. For example, following one of the applicant's fingers being captured
        (or scanned) the results of that activity may be analysed by the applicant's PAA, then
        the PAA may communicate the outcome to the verifier's verifying-PAA device. The
        outcome may be a simple conveyed message such as 'first finger scanned: match
        recognised'.
        [00448] Should the applicant's PAA recognise that the activity was performed with
        close correlation with past captures then this may be conveyed to the verifier as
        another factor of authentication. This may be conveyed to the verifier in the form of a
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   73
        (e.g. recognition) 'threshold' value with a green status indicator signalling a 'good'
        read,
        i.e. meets or exceeds 'threshold' value.
        [00449] Following the verifier receiving this fingerprint capture status determination,
        the
        'verification system' may then communicate a code to the applicant's fingerprint
        scanning (secondary) PAA device. The code may be conveyed by the secondary
        PAA device by displaying a code on, or via, the device.
        [00450] The applicant may then be instructed to present the displayed code to the
        verifier, by holding it up in view of the applicant's primary PAA device's camera. The
        correctly displayed code may be then be read by the verifier (and/or the 'verification
        systems' OCR technology) and compared/contrasted against the code that was
        originally communicated by the verification system'.
        [00451] The correct code helps indicate to the verifier (and/or 'verification system')
        that the fingerprint scanning PAA device of the applicant's is being utilised for the
        subject fingerprint scan.
        [00452] Figure 19 is a flowchart describing one embodiment of a networked
        computing environment and computing processes to facilitate a (virtual) Profile
        Account (PAA) verification session K100 in Figure 15 (e.g. an online audiovisual
        conference) to officially link or associated an applicant's 'seed' (capture and
        characteristic) data info. The verification session is coordinated and/or witnessed by,
        preferably, a CRRR party (e.g. a public servant such as a Police officer or Passport
        Office government employee).
        [00453] The profile account described above and the eLicence described above
        utilizes a security model that includes biometric templates and public key
        infrastructure services to provide a ubiquitous and open authentication service.
        [00454] The service provides authentication services whereby the user is both
        identified and authenticated, identification services whereby the end user is identified,
        public key encryption whereby a user can one way encrypt data to be sent to a known
        party and private decryption based on biometric template recognition.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     74
        [00455] Referring now to Figure 20, there is shown a flowchart depicting an
        embodiment of a system arranged to validate a device to provide secure
        communication. The transactions between external parties and the system utilised to
        carry out the method of Figure 20, utilize public key infrastructure (secure socket
        layer) secure communication and are based on a trusted authority hierarchy. The
        system provides a public certificate authority service that is trusted by individual
        organizations and/or public certificate authorities to ensure the maximum amount of
        valid client transactions.
        [00456] In order to authenticate a user all communications must first be secured
        between the end points and the system. In other words, all devices communicating
        with the system must be validated and trusted. This is achieved by ensuring that
        devices are issued with organizational certificates and that they can pass an
        exchange of encrypted data before allowing them to communicate biometric data.
        [00457] Referring to Figures 20 through 22 at step 2000, a device initiates a secure
        connection of request this results in a request for the SSL certificate (2002). The
        certificate of authority subsequently receives the SSL request at 2004 and
        subsequently at 2006 returns the SSL certificate. At step 2008 the user's device
        validates the certificate and if the certificate is not valid the process terminates at step
        2010 and no connection is initiated. Alternatively, if the connection is valid, at step
        2012 the secure device establishes an SSL connection to the certificate of authority
        service and subsequently at step 2014 a SSL tunnel is opened. Once the SSL tunnel
        is opened at step 2014 the device can then initiate data exchange at step 2016. This
        is achieved by passing the public key and the request exchange at step 2018 which is
        subsequently received by the certificate of authority at step 2020. The certificate of
        authority subsequently validates the public key at step 2022 and encrypts the session
        test data with a public key at step 2024. The encrypted session test data is then
        relayed back to the reader at step 2026 and the device, which has been listening for
        the encrypted data at step 2028 decrypts the data with a local private key at step
        2030.
        [00458] The device subsequently replies with the decrypted data at step 2032. The
        certificate of authority subsequently tests the decrypted data at step 2034 and if the
        decrypted data does not match the process is terminated at step 2036.                 If the
        encrypted data does match, then at step 2038, the certificate of authority
        acknowledges the device identity and communicates this to the device at step 2038.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                              75
        Therefore, the device determines whether the test has been approved at step 2040.
        If not, the process terminates at 2042. However, if the process is approved, then a
        valid data exchange is opened at step 2044.
        [00459] In other words, referring to Figures 20 through 22, the process to establish a
        secure communication and to validate the device is the same in the case of
        authenticating a user, identifying a user and decrypting data.
        [00460] Referring now to each of Figures 20, 21 and 22 separately, at Figure 20
        where a user is to be authenticated, once the valid data exchange is opened at step
        2044 a process to authenticate the user is initiated at step 2046 by firstly requesting a
        local user identity at step 2048 and requesting a user password at step 2050.
        Further, user biometrics are requested at step 2052 and all data is packaged and
        encrypted with the certificate of authority key at step 2054. This is then passed to the
        certificate of authority as a request for authentication at step 2056 and the certificate
        of authority at step 2058 matches the ID to the ID store. If the ID is not valid, the
        process terminates at step 2060.                  If the ID match is valid then at step 2062 the
        certificate of authority performs a password to ID match. If the password to ID match
        is not valid then the process terminates at step 2064. However, if the process is
        valid, then at step 2066 the biometric data is compared to a template in the template
        store if the data is not valid the process terminates at step 2068. If the template is
        valid then a positive authentication is returned at step 2070 and the reader tests at
        step 2072 to determine whether the user has been authenticated. If the user has not
        been authenticated, the process terminates at step 2074. Otherwise, if the user has
        been authenticated then the process terminates at step 2076.
        [00461] Referring now to Figure 21, once a user has been identified, the system may
        wish to identify a user. Thus, once the valid data exchange has been opened at step
        2046 a user identity process validation may begin at step 20800. The validation
        includes requesting the user password at step 2080, requesting user biometrics at
        step 2082, creating a password package at step 2084, packaging the requested data
        and encrypting with the certificate authority key at step 2086, and forwarding a
        request to identify the user to the certificate of authority at step 2088.
        [00462] The certificate of authority subsequently matches the template to the
        template store at step 2090 and if the match is not valid the process terminates at
        step 2092.                Alternatively, if the process valid the password is compared to the
        template.               If the password is not valid the process terminates at step 2096.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                          76
        Alternatively if the password is valid a positive ID is returned from the certificate of
        authority to the reader at step 2098 and subsequently the reader tests to determine
        whether a positive ID has been returned at step 2100. If a positive ID has not been
        returned then the process terminates at step 2102. However, if a positive identity is
        confirmed then this is reported at step 2104.
        [00463] Turning now to Figure 22, the process identical to the authenticate biometrics
        step of Figure 20 is applied and like reference refer to like steps in both process as
        shown in Figures 20 and 22.
        [00464] However, in Figure 22 additional steps are taken to decrypt the data. This is
        initiated by a data decrypt request at step 2106. The data is subsequently decrypted
        at step 2108 and the decrypted data is returned at step 2110.
        [00465] It will be understood that this process finds specific applications in a number
        of areas. An elect number of examples are provided herein but are intended to be
        illustrative rather than limiting. The first example is an age verification service which
        may be used at any venue where a user is required to be over a certain a age to be
        admitted to the venue or to participate in a given activity.
        [00466] Using a single device which runs an age validation application, an end user
        can confirm their identity and display the results on the screen for others to view. The
        device used is owned by a trusted source and not the individual who is validating their
        identity.           This prevents spoofing or false verification.  The system is explained
        generally with reference to Figure 23.
        [00467] At Figure 23 there is a user initiated request to confirm the user is over 18 at
        step 2300. This user initiated request is sent or provided by an application (referred
        to in this example as the "18+ Application", which is connected to a public network at
        step 2302.
        [00468] 18+ establishes a secure connection to the certificate of authority at step
        2304. At step 2306 the certificate of authority returns a public key and establishes a
        secure tunnel.              In turn the 18+ application requests a trusted connection to the
        certificate of authority at step 2308 and subsequently at step 2310 the certificate of
        authority validates the trust level of the device application. If the device is not trusted
        the process ends at step 2312 and no age verification is returned. If the device is not
        trusted the process ends at step 2312 and no age verification is returned.             If the
        certificate of authority validates the trust level then a link is established at step 2314
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     77
        and consequently at step 2316 the 18+ Application asks for a password and biometric
        (in this example in the form of a palm impression), the 18+ Application subsequently
        attaches the public key to the data payload and sends the data to the certificate of
        authority at step 2320. The certificate of authority validates the identity of the end
        user at step 2322.          If the user is not found in the database then the process
        terminates at step 2024. However if the user is found in the database the certificate
        of authority returns the end user public key at step 2326 and consequently at step
        2328 the 18+ Application sends the user public key to the 18+ server for an age
        match. Subsequently at step 2330 the 18+ receives a public key and matches it in
        the database. If the public key is no found, then it is assumed at the user is under 18
        and an under 18 response is returned at step 2332. However if the user is found and
        is over 18, an over 18 response is conveyed at step 2334 to the device and the 18+
        Application shows the response at step 2336.
        [00469] An alternative embodiment is shown at Figure 24. The embodiment at Figure
        24 involves the use of duel trusted devices where both devices operate a version of
        the 18+ Application. At 20400 the user activates their wireless 18+ device in listen
        mode and the person of authority activates the 18+ Application in broadcast and
        listen mode at step 2402. Consequently the 18+ Application sends out a public key
        at step 2406. The 18+ client receives the public key at step2408 and the 18+ client
        validates the public key at step 2410.
        [00470] The 18+ client then prompts the user with an ID request and requests the
        details at step 2412. If the user agrees to the request, then a user request is sent to
        confirm that the user's age is over 18 at step 2414.                The 18+ Application
        consequently connects to the public at step 2416 and the 18+ Application establishes
        a secure connection with the certificate of authority at step 2418. The certificate of
        authority returns a public key an establishes a secure tunnel at step 2420 and the
         18+ client application requests a trusted connection to the authority at step 2422. At
        step 2424 the certificate of authority validates the trust level of the device application
        and if the device is not trusted the process terminates at step 2426. If the link is
        trusted the certificate of authority validates an establishes the trusted link at step
        2428. At step 2430 the 18+ application asks end users for a password and a palm
        impression. The 18+ Application attaches its public key to the data payload at step
        2432 and sends the packaged data at step 2434.               The certificate of authority
        validates the identity of the end user at step 2436 and if the user is not found the
        process terminates at step 2438.          However if the user is found the certificate of
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                         78
        authority returns the end user public key at step 2440 and consequently at step 2442,
        the 18+ Application sends the user public key to the 18+ server for an age match. At
        step 2444 the 18+ Application receives the public key and matches it to the database.
        If no key is found the process terminates at step 2446. However if a key is found a
        further determination is made at step 2448 to determine whether the user is over 18.
        If the user is under 18, an under 8 response is returned to the 18+ Application at step
        2450. However if the user is over 18 a different response package is sent at step
        2452. The 18+ client receives the response at step 2454 and the 18+ Application
        switches to broadcast mode and sends a response encrypted with the requested
        public key at step 2456. The person in authority subsequently receives and displays
        the response package at step 2458.
        [00471] It will be understood that various embodiments to this basic process are
        envisaged.
        [00472] For example, a venue may subscribe to the 18+ service provider and receive
        a public key from the 18+ service provider. When a patron arrives at the venue a
        security guard may broadcast the venues 18+ public key using the 18+ service
        providers' application and the patrons' device may receive the venues 18+ public key.
        When the patrons device displays the 18+ logo, the patron accepts that if they scan
        their biometric or provide a password at this point it will result in the requested
        personal information being supplied to the requesting party. The patron scans their
        biometrics and may enter a password. The patrons device then communicates with
        the        18+ service provider and          the   service provider receives the    patrons
        communication.              The service provider authenticates the venues public key and
        communicates with the certificate of authority have the patrons public been
        authenticated. The certificate of authority authenticates the patrons public key and
        communicates a pass result to the 18+ service provider.                   The 18+ services
        authenticates the venues public key and then communicates an 18+ pass result to
        the patrons device encrypted with the venues public key.              If the patrons device
        receives the encrypted communication and the patrons device relays the encrypted
        communication to the security guards device with the patrons user name.                 The
        security guard receives the patrons encrypted communication and the security guard
        decrypts the communication using the corresponding private key.                That is, the
        security guards device has the private key locally stored or the security guards device
        communicates with the service provider. The security guards device subsequently
        displays the result and the patrons user name. Upon the patrons device relaying to
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           79
        the security guards device the patrons device displays their user name on their
        device for the security view, such that the security guard can confirm it is the same
        user name displayed on the security guards device.
        [00473] In yet another embodiment, the 18+ service provider authenticates the
        venues public key and then communicates an 18+ pass result to the subscribed
        patrons user name to the security guards device encrypted with the venues public
        key as well as sending a display user name signal to the patrons device.                         The
        security guards device then receives the 18+ service providers communication as
        does the patrons device.
        The security guards device decrypts the 18+ service providers communication using
        the security guards key. Subsequently the patrons device displays the patrons user
        name and the security guard confirms that the user name displayed on their device
        matches that displayed on the patrons device.
        [00474] It will be understood that other variations on the embodiments described
        herein or within the scope of the broader invention described herein.
        Figure 41: eLicence: principal flowchart
               -       Note: Q050 may follow step Q100. The reason for the described order is
                       because this invention disclosure (namely, this flowchart) has been written
                       with a retrofitted system in mind, i.e. this eLicence invention may be
                       implemented initially as an optional facility for individuals (e.g. drivers), with
                       conventional physical licence cards remaining the main form of identification.
                       Therefore, biometrics would typically be registered (as default) with existing
                       customer accounts upon a driver, for example, applying for a new, or
                       renewing an existing, licence. These biometrics may or may not be attached
                       to the licence card, e.g. as files stored on a 'smart' card chip. Therefore, the
                       reason why registering the biometrics before obtaining an eLicence (e.g.
                       Q050 before Q100) is because the example embodiment provided for this
                       invention disclosure has described a scenario where an eLicence is initially
                       implemented as an 'after market accessory' to a conventional physical licence
                       and customer account, with eLicence modules to be retrofitted into existing
                       infrastructure.
               -       Note: this principal flowchart describes a scenario of an individual obtaining
                       an eLicence which is later able to be used for the purpose of biometrically
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           80
                       verifying that individual for physical (e.g. access) or virtual (e.g. account)
                       applications. More specifically, this flowchart describes the scenario of
                       obtaining an eLicence in order to log-in to an account so that the individual
                       may communicate with, command or control a device such as a robot. Also
                       described are optional steps of requiring the individual to use their eLicence in
                       order to procure (e.g.
                       purchase), and declare receipt of, a robot, because a robot may be 'restricted'
                       or 'regulated' item according to local laws. In sum, the individual may be
                       required to credibly and reliably verify their identity, and prove that they are
                       authorized to purchase, command or control such an item.
               -       Note: an alternative scenario process may be: (i) procure an eLicence, (ii)
                       register eLicence biometrics and other particulars, and (iii) attest or use
                       eLicence to verify identity.
               -       At Q050 the individual registers their eLicence biometrics and other
                       particulars.
                       At Q100 the individual procures an eLicence.
               -       At optional Q200 the individual attests or uses their eLicence to order or
                       procure,
                       e.g. a restricted or regulated device.
               -       At optional Q300 the individual attests or uses their eLicence to convey their
                       particulars, e.g. to receive their procurement or declare receipt.
               -       At Q400 the individual attests or uses their eLicence to command, control or
                       communicate with a device, either directly or indirectly (e.g. via their 'smart'
                       device). Example devices to be commanded, controlled or communicated with
                       include semi- or fully-autonomous vehicles and robots.
        Figure 42: How eLicence biometrics and particulars were registered
               -       At Q050A the individual (or user) performs one or more biometric captures or
                       scans, e.g. hand geometry such as palm vein and fingerprints; and face
                       capture.
               *       At Q050B, in one embodiment, the capture produces a digitized image
                       pattern, which is then converted by algorithms into data points on a one or
                       more dimensional templates.
               -       At Q050C the templates are compressed and encrypted.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                          81
                       At Q050D the registry's software database stores (e.g. in a user account) the
                       registered files along with any other particulars of the individual, which may all
                       comprise the eLicence files.
        Figure 43: How to procure an eLicence
        - At Q100 the individual procures the required eLicence software, which may be
             similar to a 'smart' phone application (or app). In one embodiment, the software
              may be procured from a provider's (e.g. registry's) website or app store. Using
             their 'smart' device, the individual is directed to the website, for example, to
             download the software onto their device. In another embodiment, the software is
             generic, in other words it is a universal app (or 'shell') being downloaded, having
              none of the individual's personal (or private) files on it, i.e. it is yet to be
             customized to the individual. To customize the eLicence software the individual
              must procure their eLicence files, which comprise their biometric and other
              particular data information.
        - At Q130 the individual establishes a device connection to the source of the files or
              logs-in to an account for access to the files for download. The individual procures
             their eLicence files, e.g. have them downloaded on their 'smart' device. Three
             example scenarios include downloading the files from a 'smart' card (e.g. registry
              issued), downloading from a local network (e.g. when the individual is at a registry
             facility), downloading from the Internet (e.g. as email attachments or from a
              register website).
        - At Q140 the individual downloads the files onto their 'smart' device or the files are
             automatically downloaded after logging-in, e.g. the user's eLicence software
             operating on their 'smart' device may communicate with the source of the eLicence
             files (e.g. registry server), conveying a data information signal which informs the
             server that the eLicence software does not currently possess the eLicence files,
             which then initiates the sending of those files to the 'smart' device.
        - At Q150 the individual installs the files in the eLicence software or this is
             completed automatically be the software after downloading.
        Figure 44: How to log-in to eLicence account
        - At               Q131       some       scenario
             embodiments are as follows:                o
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           82
              Scenario A: 'Smart' chip to 'smart'
             device
                     In one embodiment, the individual may be prompted for a username and/or
                         password in the form of a 'pop-up' notification on their 'smart' device when
                         their 'smart' card chip is brought in proximity to their 'smart' device. The
                         username and/or password may have been supplied to the individual via
                         email, sms or issued over-the-counter with the 'smart' card.
                     In another embodiment, the two devices communicated via near field
                         communication (NFC), other radio frequency (RF) transmission (e.g.
                         Bluetooth), or optical transmission, e.g. infrared.
              o Scenario B: Local network to 'smart' device
                     In one embodiment, the individual may be informed (e.g. by a registry officer)
                         to log their 'smart' device onto the registry's local area network. The
                         individual may be supplied with a code for inputting into the individual's
                         'smart' device to access the network.
                     In another embodiment, the individual's 'smart' device communications with the
                         network via Wi-Fi or other RF transmission.
              o Scenario C: Internet to 'smart' device
                     In one embodiment, after being directed to the registry's website, the individual
                         is informed to answer challenge-response type questions which are personal
                         to the user (e.g. information which the registry holds on the individual that
                         may not be on their 'smart' card, if they have one) and/or informed to
                         perform their biometric captures or scans.
             At Q132 o Scenario A: 'Smart' chip
             to 'smart' device
                     The individual inputs the username and/or password (e.g. conveys audibly,
                         voice-to-text dictation)
              o Scenario B: Local network to 'smart' device
                     The individual inputs the code (e.g. manually, using a touch-screen keyboard).
              o Scenario C: Internet to 'smart' device
                     The individual inputs challenge-response answers and/or performs their one or
                         more biometric captures or scans.
                     In one embodiment, to log-in or to access (or 'unlock') for download the
                         individual's eLicence biometric files the individual is required to perform one
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           83
                         or more biometric verifications (e.g. biometrics which the individual had
                         already registered with the registry).
                     In one embodiment, to gain download access to a particular eLicence biometric
                         file (e.g. comprising the eBiometric) the individual must first perform that
                         same biometric verification (i.e. one for one).
                     In another embodiment, an individual may be required to perform all biometric
                         verifications which were registered as eLicence biometric sources or
                         subjects before being granted access to any eLicence biometric files (i.e. all
                         for all, otherwise none).
        - At Q133 the individual becomes logged-in to their eLicence account (or a connection
              is established) in order to download their eLicence files.
        Figure 45: How eLicence files are 'smart' device procured
        Scenario A: 'Smart' chip/SIM card to 'smart' device
        - At step 1 an individual registers (at least one) biometric characteristic or source
              (e.g. palm vein, face, fingerprints, voice) using (at least one) biometric capture
             device R1 00. This step may take place at a government facility, e.g. RTA or Roads
             and Maritime Service registry.
        - At step 2 the capture data information (e.g. registered files) are stored on (at least
             one) computing device R80. R80 may be a government server connected R01 to
              R100 capture device(s).
        - At step 3 the registry may issue the individual (at least one) 'smart' chip/SIM card
              R150 which has been uploaded R02 (or installed) with the individual's eLicence
              biometric files, e.g. on a 'smart' chip.
        - At step 4 the individual may via (at least one) communication network R60A, which
              may be a form of close range communication, for example, such as NFC/RF,
             cause the 'smart' chip files (e.g. the biometric data information) to be transmitted
              R03 and R08 to the individual's 'smart' device R25 (e.g. a 'smart'
              phone/wristwatch). This is one method of the individual procuring on their 'smart'
             device their eLicence files (i.e. via their 'smart' card).
        Scenario B: Local network to 'smart' device
        - At step 1 and 2: refer to Scenario A step 1 and 2, respectively.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                            84
             At step 3 the registry may allow the individual to download their eLicence files onto
             their 'smart' device R25 via, for example, a local area network or other near range
             communication such as (at least one) communication network R60A. Network
             transmission R04, R60A and R08 may include NFC/RF, optical (e.g. IR) and/or Wi
              Fi, and in one embodiment require the individual to be issued with a login and/or
              password to join the network for this purpose. This is another method of the
              individual procuring on their 'smart' device their eLicence files (e.g. via a registry's
              local or near range network).
        Scenario C: Internet to 'smart' device
        - At step 1 and 2: refer to Scenario A step 1 and 2, respectively.
        - At step 3 the registry may email the individual the eLicence files for download, as
             attachments. In another embodiment, the individual may be emailed hyperlinks
             which would direct the individual to an Internet download web-address (e.g. ftp
             site). In yet another embodiment, the individual may be directed to log-in to a
             customer online account (e.g. Q243A to Q243F), which afterwards would be able
             to access for download their eLicence files. These embodiments may occur by
              means of (at least one) computing device R80, e.g. registry server, communicating
              R05 and R06 with an individual's 'smart' device R25 via (at least one)
             communication network (or Internet) R60B. These embodiments comprise yet
             another method of the individual procuring on their 'smart device' their eLicence
             files (i.e. via the registry's server over the Internet).
        Three particular embodiments as follows:
        (1)                the individual is required to attend the registry (e.g. DMV or RMS) for every
        transaction, i.e. for the first registration process and every renewal of their eLicence
        thereafter, to have their biometrics and/or particulars updated.
        (2)                the individual is only required to attend the registry once, i.e. the first
        registration process. The individual may not need to register or renew their
        biometrics, or they may be required to renew but virtually.
        (3)                the individual has the option to register for all occasions virtually, or
        attending a registry is not an option.
        In another embodiment, this network FIGURE may represent the following devices:
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           85
        - (At least one) biometric capture device R100 may represent the CRRR (e.g.
             trusted) party's sensor devices for registration or enrolment of a customer's
              biometrics. Such party may be a motor registry or Department of Motor Vehicles.
        - (At least one) computing device R80 may represent the trusted party's server,
             which has stored on it the customer's particulars and/or the trusted party's digital
              certifications (e.g. master and child), used, for example, for digitally signing the
              sensor device upon installation and transmission to respective service providers,
              e.g. R07i and R07ii.
        - (At least one) computing device R85 may represent the BIOCA, e.g. biometric
             Certificate Authority.
        - (At least one) computing device R90A and R90B may represent service providers.
             There may be additional service providers, not shown, which may be represented
             as R90n.These service providers would be 'resellers' or add-on services to the
              BIOCA platform. For example, these service providers would leverage the BIOCA
             system by offering to customers the facility of holding only one piece of personal
              information on, about or of the customer. Such pieces may include: names, date of
              birth, 18+ or 21 + years of age, full residential address, only
             suburb/town/postcode/zip of residential address, qualifications,
              membership/client/subscriber/patron numbers, etc. The premise is to separate the
              holding of particulars so not one party or server unnecessarily holds more than
             one piece.
        Figure 46:
        How eLicence files are auto-deleted & reinstated
               -       This figure provides a scenario example for triggering and disturbing events
                       for a device.
               " At Q141 the user dissociates from their 'smart' device (e.g. takes-off the
                       'smart' wristband or wristwatch-phone). Devices dissociation can take
                       numerous embodiments, e.g. the device no longer is able to detect the user's
                       biometric signature or 'vitals' which may include one or more of the following:
                       heart rate; body (e.g. vein or tissue) geometry; DNA/RNA; perspiration;
                       temperature; or other biometric sources. In another embodiment, the activity
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                                86
                       of dissociation may be a recognised process or sequence of movements
                       either detected by sensors in the device being dissociated or by another
                       'observing' device, e.g. a camera which then communicates with the 'smart'
                       device such observed activity. In another embodiment, altering the
                       dimensional structure of the device is another sensor recognised dissociation
                       activity, e.g. a 'smart' wristband is unwrapped from around a wrist,
                       straightening its normally curled structure triggers a dissociation event.
                       Unlatching, detaching or disconnecting the device may also trigger a
                       dissociation event, e.g. in order to take-off a 'smart' wristband the strap is
                       required to be undone, and undoing the band severs an electrical connection,
                       for example, causing a triggering event; or in another event the electrical
                       activity changed, e.g. no longer able to detect bioelectrical or
                       electrophysiological activity (via skin conductance). Any one or combination of
                       these embodiments may cause a dissociation event.
               e       At Q142 the user's 'smart' device recognizes one or more dissociation triggers
                       or events.
               -       At Q143i the user's 'smart' device grants the user a 'grace period', e.g. allows
                       the user to dissociate with their device for an extended period of time.
                       However, one or more triggering events occur then the device cancels the
                       grace period, and pursues intention to scramble/delete eLicence files.
                              o In one embodiment, a triggering event may include disturbing the
                                    device such as moving it (which activates accelerometers and/or
                                    gyroscopes). In another embodiment, disturbing the device may be
                                    recognized due to the device's geolocation module detecting a change
                                    in position or location. In some other embodiment, one or more or a
                                    combination of the follow may lead to device disturbing event: a
                                    change in magnetic field, change in light conditions, radio frequencies
                                    or intensities, ambient volume or a change in a specific acoustic sound
                                    either generated locally or remotely. o In another embodiment, the
                                    user may be granted a period of time (e.g. 120 seconds) from the
                                    moment of initiating a triggering event such as taking-off their device
                                    (e.g. 'smart' watch) to halting the triggering event such as putting it to
                                    rest on a stable surface. If the device is not put to rest while
                                    dissociated before the trigger event timer has expired then the device
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                               87
                                    may execute a 'concluding event', in one embodiment, a data destroy
                                    event such as Q143ii.
                              o     However, if the device is rested, in less than 120 seconds, for
                                    example, the device countdown timer, in one embodiment, stops and
                                    resets. In another embodiment, the device resets to a 60 second timer
                                    should the device be disturbed from rest.
               -       At Q143ii the 'smart' device then randomly scrambles and/or deletes the
                       eLicence files. This may be completed after the expiry of a 'grace period', e.g.
                       30 seconds. The user's eLicence biometric and/or particular files become
                       unable to be read, copied or managed, they no longer exist or change to a
                       meaningless form.
               -       At Q144 the 'smart' device is not able to authenticate the user by comparing
                       eLicence biometric template files locally stored on the 'smart' device with
                       newly captured biometric data information. The eLicence software device has
                       reverted back to its (as new) 'empty shell' state.
               -       At Q145 the user reassociates with the 'smart' device, e.g. puts it on. - At
                       Q146 the 'smart' device recognises association, e.g. one or more (of the
                       user's) biometrics or vitals are detected by the 'smart' device's sensors,
                       and/or the device has been positioned or returned to a state before one or
                       more of the dissociation events were triggered (e.g. back to being worn).
               -       At Q147 the user is directed to procure their eLicence files, again, (e.g. Q120)
                       such as to remotely download them from the registry server, or any other
                       method permitted by the registry from time to time for procuring the user's
                       eLicence files on their 'smart' device, e.g. transferring from the user's 'smart'
                       card chip. - At Q148 the user logs-in to their eLicence account, e.g. refer to
                       Q130; Q131 to Q133.
               -       At Q149 the user's eLicence files are downloaded and installed, e.g. refer to
                       Q140; Q150.
               -       Note: in one embodiment, the eLicence files are developed with a built-in
                       'expiry date', i.e. after a period of time (e.g. commencing from the
                       downloading date or other defined time) the eLicence files self-destruct or are
                       automatically scrambled/deleted. The user must then reapply (or re
                       download) their eLicence files from the registry server, if eligible to do so or
                       receive. Each subsequent reissuing of the eLicence files may comprise a
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                             88
                       different serial code (e.g. key) or encryption algorithm (e.g. block cipher or
                       SEED). Essentially, previous eLicence files become 'out-of-date', useless. In
                       another embodiment, the register server may (e.g. independently) transmit a
                       data information signal to the user's eLicence software to deactivate it or
                       restrict certain functions of it, e.g. the user's eLicence is disqualified or
                       demoted to a different class. In another embodiment, the opposite to the
                       before mentioned may be true, e.g. promoted, increased class functions, etc
        Figure 47: How to procure using an eLicence
        - At Q210 the individual browses a device trader's or merchant's store, in-person
              (e.g. "bricks and mortar") or virtually (e.g. online or eCommerce).
        - At Q220 the individual selects the transaction items, e.g. a regulated or restricted
             device.
        - At Q230 the individual supplies their particulars which may include their delivery or
             shipment details.
        - At Q240 the individual attests or uses their eLicence to complete the transaction.
             Their eLicence can supply and/or attest the individual's particulars such as name;
              residential or registered address; date of birth; eLicence number and class; and
             any other particulars from time to time as may become registered.
        - In one embodiment, an eLicence may be utilized to complete transactions (e.g.
             eCommerce shopping carts, online banking, etc) with all activities typically
              requiring the user to manually perform the functions undertaken automatically by
             or in conjunction with the eLicence application. For example, in one embodiment,
             the eLicence may be used to complete a set of transaction activities in one action,
             e.g. "one motion payment system", "one gesture payment system" or "one action
              payment system". In other words, the eLicence owner may perform the necessary
              biometric capture and upon completion a set of software functions are
             automatically fulfilled. In one embodiment, the user is wearing a 'smart' wrist
             device with at least one integrated biometric capture device, e.g. a palm vein
              reader. Using their opposite hand's palm they may in 'one quick motion' capture
             their palm and complete an entire transaction process
                                                          Figure 48:
                                    How an eLicence transacts (e.g. with eCommerce)
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     89
        - At Q241 the user is prompted to log-in to their eLicence. In one embodiment,
             eCommerce software has the eLicence software integrated into it as an 'add-on'.
             Thus, when required the eCommerce software communicates with the eLicence
             software on the user's 'smart' device, causing a 'pop-up' notification to be
             displayed or conveyed that advises the user to log-in to their eLicence on their
              'smart' device.
        - At Q242 the user causes the eLicence software on their 'smart' device to operate,
             following the pop-up notifications, e.g. selects an on-screen option "log-in", unless
             the notification caused the software to operate.
        - At Q243 refer to steps Q243A to Q243F.
        - At Q244, after being logged-in, the eLicence software performs one of the
             following: (i) automatically completes the transaction; or (ii) conveys a notification
              requiring the user to designate the finalization of the transaction. In one
             embodiment, steps Q244A to Q224C transpire. In another embodiment, steps U1
             to U5 transpire.
        Figure 49: How to log-on to the eLicence software
        - At Q243A the user logs-in to their eLicence, e.g. on their 'smart' phone.
        - At Q243B refer to step Q131.
        - At Q243C refer to step Q132.
        - At Q243D the individual may perform subsequent captures. Future files are formed
             from those captures and are then compared against previously registered and
             stored files.
        - At Q243E if the future files match or correlate with past files within acceptable
             threshold values a 'pass' result is returned.
        - At Q243F refer to step Q133.
        Figure 50: How an eLicence integrates with eCommerce
        - At Q244A the eLicence software (e.g. software developer's kit), integrated into a
             web-based application such as a merchant's eCommerce or other transaction
             software, communicates with the transaction software.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     90
        - At Q244B, following the user being authenticated (or logged-in to their eLicence), a
              unique code is generated. In one embodiment, a code is not generated if the
              user's eLicence software did not recognise or authenticate the user (i.e. if a pass
              result was not returned).
        - At Q244C if the encrypted code is generated and subsequently received by the
              (e.g.
              merchant's) transaction software it is then decrypted by the transaction software.
        At Q244D the decrypted data information is correlated against other user particulars
        and/or the user's order details, if applicable. For example, should the user's eLicence
        class (conveyed within the generated code) meet or exceed the 'restriction' or
        'regulated' class designated for the order item then the transaction proceeds. - At
        optional Q244E a notification may be communicated to a (e.g. third party or
        government) computing device either from the user's, merchant's or both parties'
        devices via a communication network (or Internet), to inform of the transaction's
        outcome.
        Figure 51: How an eLicence
        transmits - At U1 refer to Q244B.
        " At U2 the user's device communicates a data information signal comprises an
             encrypted code.
        - At U3 another party's device also operating the eLicence software receives the
             code.
        - At U4 the other party's device decrypts and interprets (e.g. analyzes) the code.
        - At U5 a results decision transpires, e.g. a pass or fail notification.
        Figure 52: How to use an eLicence to declare receipt
        - At Q310, in one embodiment, the customer receives an email, sms or other instant
              message notification, advising the customer when and where their order will be
             delivered or asking the customer to define when and where the order is to be
             delivered.
        - At optional Q320, the customer is required to confirm their delivery order using
             their eLicence, e.g. either accept the deliverer's delivery location or time, or define
             alternatives.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                       91
        - At optional Q330, the customer receives another notification, e.g. 5-10 minutes
              prior to the delivery being dispatched to confirm that the customer will be present
             at the specified location and/or that the customer will be available to receive.
        - At optional Q340, the customer performs similar activities as in Q320. However, in
             a further embodiment, the customer may be required to communicate their position
              (e.g. geolocation, altitude, etc, i.e. multi-dimension localization) to the deliverer. In
             one scenario, providing position data information would allow the deliverer to
             evaluate whether the customer is at or near the designated delivery location. In
             another scenario, the position data information is relayed in real-time to the
             deliverer so that the delivery may be completed where the customer is at a
              particular time (e.g. the customer's location may change over time, and the
             deliverer would be required to intercept the customer while on their travels).
        - At Q350 the order may be dispatched, e.g. the deliverer completes the final
             journey to the customer's delivery position.
        - At Q360 the customer is required to verify their identity using their eLicence prior
             to the delivery being completed and/or to declare receipt of delivery.
        Figure 53: How to verify eLicence particulars
        e    At T1 01 an eLicence user initiates a verification. This user (labeled 'verifier' for the
              purpose of this example) intends to request another user's eLicence particulars,
             e.g. first, middle and last name; date of birth; residential address; eLicence
              number; or any other particulars which the eLicence may comprise.
        e    At T102 the verifier defines the particulars which they wish the other user (labeled
              'customer' for the purpose of this example) to supply. In one embodiment, the
             verifier navigates the eLicence software's available particulars options, selecting or
             deselecting for the customer request as necessary.
        - At T103 the verifier causes their eLicence device to transmit a data information
             signal, e.g. selecting the eLicence software's 'send request' option. Any eLicence
             device operating within wireless range could receive this transmission. Some
             embodiments are described herein which address selective, dedicated or secure
             communication between specific eLicence devices.
        e    At T104 the customer's eLicence device receives the transmission.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                          92
        - At T1 05 the transmission causes the customer's eLicence device to convey a
              notification. In one embodiment, the verifier's request for the customer's eLicence
              particulars are displayed or projected on or via the customer's 'smart' device (e.g.
              'smart' wristband). The customer's wristband display module (e.g. screen or
              monitor) presents, in one embodiment, the list of particulars the verifier has
              requested.
        " At T106 the customer evaluates the request for particulars, deciding whether they
             agree. If the customer agrees they may proceed with the request (i.e. T107).
             Otherwise, in one embodiment, the customer has the option to deselect one or
              more of the requested particulars.
        " At T107 the customer logs-in to their device's eLicence software. Refer to the
             description for Q243, specifically Q243A to Q243F.
        - At T1 08 the customer's eLicence software completes the transaction. Refer to the
             description for Q244, specifically U1 to U5.
        - At T109 the verifier's eLicence device notifies of the customer's transmitted
              particulars. In one embodiment, a list of the requested particulars is displayed on
             the verifier's eLicence device, with the particulars which were satisfied (or fulfilled)
              by the customer indicated with a green tick mark, those that were not shown, as a
              red "X" or, as appropriate, "NS" (not supplied). In another embodiment, the verifier
              may have requested the "18+" or "21+" (years of age) customer particular, which
             would return either a green tick if the customer's age satisfied that request, a red
              "X" if it did not, or "NS" if not supplied.
        - Note: in an alternative scenario a customer may be required to perform their
              biometric scan(s) on the verifier's eLicence device, e.g. a Police Officer requesting
             a citizen to verify their identity. In this scenario the Officer's device may have the
             citizen's eLicence files stored locally on the device or the Officer's device may
             communicate, e.g. via (at least one) communication network (or Internet) R60B,
             with another computing device such as a central server, e.g. the registry's server
             or (at least one) computing device R80. Results of the query would then be
              (relayed back to and) displayed on the Officer's device.
        * Creating selective, dedicated or secure communication between eLicence
             devices:
              o Transmission range modulation: if an eLicence device detects the presence of
                    more than one other eLicence device then the eLicence software modulates the
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           93
                   wireless transmission range (e.g. NFC distance) for the conveyance of any
                   eLicence personal/private data information in a device to device exchange, i.e.
                   to reduce the probability of unwanted devices receiving data information signals
                   that were intended for exchange between two parties those devices may
                    require their users to facilitate the exchange by reducing the distance between
                   the their two devices, e.g. from a typical one meter range to a few centimeters.
                   Thus, closer proximity for exchange becomes necessary. In one embodiment,
                   the eLicence software conveys a 'traffic lights' user interface notification, e.g.
                   green = maximum distance permitted, amber = closest distance required, and
                    red = not working, e.g. failed process.
              " Code verification or exchange: following initiation of an exchange event (e.g. to
                    request or convey eLicence data information) should a device detect more than
                   one other eLicence device then the eLicence software notifies its user of the
                   other devices, e.g. by presenting a list of user profiles, each transmitted from
                   those devices. Each user can create their own user profile for this 'informal'
                    promotion of their eLicence device. If two or more parties have the same user
                    profile (e.g.
                    name, symbol or logo) then each device may notify their respective user
                   accordingly, e.g. suggesting the selection of alternatives, in the meantime.
                   Therefore, for two specific users to communicate securely, they would each
                   advise of and confirm each other's user profile, then select the other from their
                    respective notification lists.
              o 'Is this of you?': in the scenario where one user (e.g. a verifier) captures on their
                   device biometrics, for instance, of another user (e.g. a customer), then the
                   verifier's device would process accordingly (e.g. as described for capture
                   device P100A), i.e. it would convert the customer's biometrics into characteristic
                   data information, then wirelessly broadcast that data information, seeking any
                    'rightfully claiming' devices (i.e. the customer's device such as contributing
                   device P200). Therefore, an eLicence customer request may be attached with
                   capture data information of the customer. Thus, only the customer's eLicence
                   device would correlate the characteristic data information, causing the two
                    parties' eLicence devices to establish a secure connection. In one embodiment,
                   this would happen by the customer's device replying (e.g. P031), transmitting a
                   data information signal which after being received by the verifier's device would
                   generate an 'effect' (e.g. P033) such as 'send any other buffered/cached (e.g.
                    P017) data information of me', and/or transmitting (e.g. P037) conveyed data
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                         94
                    information (e.g. P036) to the verifier's device, e.g. the eLicence requested
                    particulars. In another
                   embodiment, should more than one (prospective) customer be captured and
                   characteristic data information formed of each and broadcasted by the verifier's
                   device, then the customer which is recognized (e.g. P010 and/or P011) to be
                   the 'primary', e.g. determined to be closer (millimeters) and more forward or
                   directly facing to the verifier, may be allocated a higher probability or priority as
                   the customer which verifier is interacting with. Consequently, the eLicence
                   software decides that the primary customer should connect securely with the
                   verifier's device.
        Figure 54: How a robotic device verifies eLicence particulars
        - Note: this figure, in-principle, comprises similar processes as described in the
              previous FIGURE (How to verify eLicence particulars, T1 01 to T1 09), however
             some changes have been made to address another embodied scenario, though
             the other FIGURE may be referenced for other applicable description. For
             example, a robot has been dispatched to a customer's position. However, before
              performing a final approach, e.g. landing near (millimeters) the customer, the robot
              is instructed (or decides) to verify the identity of the potential customer first (from
             an appropriate, safe or secure distance, e.g. while hovering somewhere above).
        - At T201 eLicence software installed and operating on a robotic device or
             autonomous vehicle, for example, initiates a party verification (e.g. with a potential
             customer, receiver, passenger or another robot). This device or vehicle (labeled
              'verifier' for the purpose of this example) intends to request this other party's
             eLicence particulars, e.g. first, middle and last name or other identification
              name/code; date of birth, or manufactured date; residential or base address;
             eLicence number; or any other particulars which the party's eLicence may
             comprise.
        - At T202: refer to T1 02. In addition, the verifier may capture the customer, e.g. one
             or more biometrics, or (Activity) Profiles, and package the formed characteristic
             data information (with associated metadata or 'tags') for transmission with the
             eLicence request.
        - At T203 the verifier causes their eLicence module to transmit the data information
              request signal.
        * At T204 the customer's eLicence device receives the transmission.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                      95
        - At T205, following the completion of one or more secure connection processes
             and/or 'rightfully claiming' correlation (e.g. P027, P028 and P029) steps, the
             transmission causes the customer's eLicence device to convey the request
              notification.
        - At T206: refer to T106.
        - At T207: refer to T107.
        - At T208: refer to T108.
        - At T209: refer to T1 09. The robot's eLicence module returns a 'pass' result, e.g.
             the encountered entity is the customer the robot was dispatched to meet. In one
             embodiment, the customer's eLicence particulars conveyed to the robot matched
             the customer order (manifest) details beyond an acceptable threshold. If a 'fail'
              result was produced the robot may then decide to return to base (e.g. no delivery
             effected).
        Figure 55: Physical and virtual eLicence verification
        - S25C represents a customer's 'smart' device.
        - S25V represents a verifier's 'smart' device, which may be similar to the S25C.
        e    S60A represents (at least one) communication network, e.g. close range
             communication such as NFC/RF, IR or Wi-Fi WLAN/PAN/DAN.
        - R80 represents (at least one) computing device, e.g. a third party or government
             server.
        - S60B represents (at least one) communication network (or Internet), e.g. 3G/4G
              (LTE, HSPA+, EVDO) Next G, GSM/GPRS or Wi-Fi WAN/MAN.
        - These communication forms (i.e. Public and Private network methods) may
             similarly apply to the other eLicence network diagram.
        Figure 56: How to directly control a robot using eLicence
        - At Q410 the individual logs-in to their eLicence software or account, e.g. on or via
             their 'smart' device.
        - At Q420, in one embodiment, the individual causes their eLicence software and/or
             files to be transmitted to another device, e.g. their autonomous or 'smart' vehicle,
             or robot.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                        96
        - At Q430 in order to communicate with, command or control their robot the
              individual now logs-in to their eLicence software using their robot.
        Figure 57: How to indirectly control a robot using eLicence
        " Concept/invention: using an eLicence to log-in to a user's account in order to
              initiate or facilitate the transmission of a data information signal which would permit
             the communication, control or command of another device, e.g. a robot or semi- or
             fully autonomous vehicle.
        - At Q440 the same occurs as in Q410.
        - At Q450 the individual navigates their eLicence interface, and then selects the
             device they wish to communicate with, command or control, e.g. their autonomous
             or 'smart' vehicle, or robot. Therefore, in this scenario, for example, the individual
              is using their 'smart' device like a remote control for, or tethered device, to the
              robot.
        - At Q460 the individual communicates with, commands or controls their robot via
             their 'smart' device.
        [00475] Figures 25, 26 and 27 represent example embodiments of a capture device,
        processing device (or component) and contributing device.
        [00476] The process begins with Figure 25.
        [00477] At step 1 an entity is captured (e.g. visual scene captured P001) by a capture
        device P100A.
        [00478] At step 2 data is generated, e.g. Data P002.
        [00479] P110A may represent a generic sensor, although for the purpose of
        conveying an example a visual capture device has been described, and the steps
        proceeding do have a closer bearing to that type of capture device; however, the
        overall principle remains the same.
        [00480] At step 3 the data is buffered/cached while simultaneously being encrypted,
        i.e. in real-time, e.g. P003.
        [00481] At step 4 since this example capture device describes a visual capture
        device, e.g. a camera, the steps comprises processes more adept to this type of
        capture device, and the frame comparison module ('sensory adaption') P004 is an
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                     97
        example of this. At this step this module analyzes the visual feed, assesses for
        changes in the data, for example, which may correspond with changes to a capture
        device's visual field of view.
        [00482] At step 5 if a frame of a captured scene changes (e.g. a pattern change or
        pixel charge value change) then the frame is transmitted to a processing unit (e.g. a
        remote server) processing P300. Another scenario is the frame is not of value when
        compared to the proceeding or preceding frame but is when compared with a frame
        separated by a particular unit of time or number of frames. So there may be two main
        scenarios of frame comparison: (i) frame : frame2, frame2 : frame; and (ii) frame :
        frame4 : frame 7 : frameio : etc. In (i) proceeding frames are compared with preceding,
        and in (ii) an initial or reference frame is compared with a frame three units after, then
        another three units, and another three units, etc to check for subtle changes.
        [00483] At step 6 if there were not frame changes or frames of value then the data is
        deleted P006.
        [00484] Note: P120A may represent a pre-processing component of a capture device.
        [00485] At step 7 the frames that were of value were transmitted to the processing
        unit or device P300. (e.g. P333A in Figure 25 to P333AA in Figure 26).
        [00486] At step 8 the valued frames are received (buffered/cached) by the (e.g.
        remote server) processing P300, and the frame(s) are referred to as 'capture data
        information' P007.
        [00487] Note: P300 may be a processing module integrated into the capture device
        P100A or a separately housed device such as a remote server.
        [00488] At step 9 the capture data information (CaDI) is analyzed/processed by a
        Recognition Module P008 (which may represent recognition 'add-on' software to the
        recognition 'platform') and a 'Past Experience' Database P010 is referenced (which
        may represent 'experienced' or 'encountered' 'memories' or past captures that have
        been converted into characteristic data information).
        [00489] Note: P1 30A may represent a feature extractor in a typical biometric system.
        [00490] At step 10 if the features extracted are of value P011 (e.g. Activity Profiles
        and/or Profiles were recognized), then the CaDI is converted into 'characteristic data
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                            98
        information'              (ChDI), e.g. 'Characteristic data info' e.g. 'expression strings' (+
        metadata) P140A. ChDI may be considered descriptive data information of the
        (Activity) Profiles, rather than the CaDI itself, i.e. multimedia in nature, able to be
        'played back'. For example, a scene/frame with a dog in it would in the case of a
        visual image capture not return a visual image file as ChDI but rather a description of
        the         scene           which   includes  the     dog-not    limited to   the  type/breed,
        position/pose/orientation of the dog relative to other scene objects or features.
        Different recognition add-ons would be capable from time to time of producing more
        descriptive ChDI.
        [00491] At step 11 if the CaDI was not of value, i.e. no recognized (Activity) Profiles
        then the data information may be deleted P012.
        [00492] At step 12 the (e.g. remote server) processing P300 unit may return a
        recognition              result which may then be conveyed to the device P042, via
        What?/(Activity) profile? P013, and connectors P333BB in Figure 52 to P333B in
        Figure 51. An example of conveying P042 includes a capture device displaying
        augmented reality (AR) data information to a user, informing the user details of an
        object, or (in)tangible, which was captured by the AR device's forward facing camera.
        [00493] Note: therefore, P444 may represent an application device or 'end use' of this
        recognition account.
        [00494] At step 13 if (Activity) Profiles were present at P013 they may then be sorted
        at Public &/or Private P014.
        [00495] At step 14 if Public (Activity) Profiles they may be transmitted to a value
        module P015.
        [00496] At step 15 if of value the Public (Activity) Profiles are contributed
        (i.e. stored/updated) on the 'Past Experience' Database P010. In other words, this
        P010 Database may accumulate addition or new experience/encounter memories.
        [00497] At step 16 if the Public (Activity) Profiles were not of value they are deleted
        P012.
        [00498] At step 17 Public &/or Private (Activity) Profiles are processed by an Error
        Correction/Distortion Toleration Module P016. Further context and description about
        this Module P016 is as follows:
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                               99
                             a. A capture device forms CaDI, which is then converted into ChDI, e.g.
                                    expression strings (e.s.). ChDI is not always automatically contributed
                                    because     the  captured    source   may     not  be   of the   Profile
                                    Account/eLicence (i.e. recognition account) owner. A capture device,
                                    when dealing with Private ChDI, must manage transmission of data
                                    information accordingly, i.e. restricting which devices receive for
                                    contribution. This can be accomplished a number of ways. In one
                                    embodiment, a capture device utilises key encryption.
                             b. For example, in biometric reading multi-samples of the same captured
                                    source (e.g. facial)     could result   in not completely consistent
                                    codewords, data arrays, ChDI or e.s. of that facial biometric to
                                    previously contributed or calculated strings for an individual. Such
                                    reasons could be due to noise or interference. This can be
                                    accommodated through the use of methods which provide a way to
                                    ensure that multi-samples each with very similar biometric expression
                                    strings would lead to the generation of the same cipher key.
                             c. In some embodiments, such methods include error-correcting code
                                    schemes, Shamir's key sharing scheme, soft two-level construction by
                                    wrap-around and pinsketch, and/or Cascaded Linear Discriminant
                                    Analysis (e.g. P016).
                             d. In other words, error correction and/or distortion tolerance methods
                                    can accommodate the variance of the biometrics, allowing a 'robust
                                    key' to be generated from distinguishing features.
        [00499] At step 18 the robust key is inputted into a Key Generator (e.g. P017). The
        same unique key (e.g. codeword/phrase) may be generated for the same user's
        biometric source even if the biometric is acquired at a different time or under different
        (e.g. environmental) conditions.
                             a. In one embodiment, if a sufficient number of expressions are
                                    recovered correctly, the 'bound secret' (e.g. Private Package contents)
                                    can be restored exactly. In one scenario, if a recognition account
                                    owner formed 'seed' ChDI which contributed e.s. of a source and that
                                    e.s. was error corrected and/or tolerance distorted then a unique key
                                    may be generated from the 'raw' e.s. Later, when a non-seed capture
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                               100
                                    device, for example, captures this same biometric it may similarly form
                                    this unique key, and use this key to encrypt the transmission of the
                                    respective e.s. so only the rightful owner can contribute as they would
                                    have the same unique key to decrypt this Private Package.
                             b. However, after a contributing device receives and decrypts the
                                    revealed e.s. may be first analyzed against the corresponding average
                                    expression string in a template txt file to ensure it is within tolerance; if
                                    not, it is deleted, i.e. not contributed. If within tolerance, the e.s. is
                                    added to the relevant txt file.
        [00500] At step 18 the unique key is used to encrypt a respective ChDI package
        P018i, which was packaged by the Packager Module X200 (refer to Figure 60).
        However, before encrypting, a copy of the unique key is added to the package, to
        also form part of the encrypted 'message', as described in Figure 60 X222 (4). Public
        (Pu) packages from the Packager Module X200 may not be encrypted.
        [00501] At step 19 the encrypted packages (e.g. Pr e.s. A [md 1] or a Pu package)
        are digitally signed (e.g. P018ii) by the processing unit P300 or capture device
        P100A. In one embodiment, the device's Private Key is used to digitally sign.
        [00502] At step 20 the digitally signed (and encrypted) packages are transmitted to
        the capture device's buffer/cache (e.g. P019) via connectors P333CC in Figure 26
        and P333C in Figure 25.
        [00503] Referring to Figure 27, at step 21 the package is time restricted and/or
        expired (e.g. P020). A newly formed package may not be expired at this point,
        proceeding to the next stage, e.g. (i) No, for transmission.
        [00504] At step 22 the package is transmitted (e.g. P021).
        [00505] At step 23 the transmission may be received by numerous devices. In one
        scenario a contributing device P200 and another device P100B may receive. The
        steps for device P100B will first be described, followed by contributing device P200.
        [00506] At step 24 device P100B receives (e.g. P022) the capture device's
        transmission (e.g. wirelessly), via connectors P111E in Figure 25 and P111EE in
        Figure 27.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                              101
        [00507] At step 25 the package is buffered/cached (e.g. P023).
        [00508] At step 26 the package is checked for a trusted digital signature (e.g. P024).
        If no trusted signature the package may be deleted (e.g. P025). Otherwise the
        package proceeds to the next step.
        [00509] At step 27 the package is assessed for value or its Public designation.
        (e.g. P026). If not of value and/or if not a Public package the package may be deleted
        (e.g. P025). Otherwise the package proceeds to the next step.
        [00510] At step 28 the Public package is contributed (e.g. stored/updated/reported) to
        a 'Past Experience'/'Recognition Feedback' Module.
                             a. A Recognition Feedback Module, in one embodiment, facilitates the
                                    acquisition of recognition data information on particular (Activity)
                                    Profiles which may have been captured by the capture device (e.g.
                                    P100A in Figure 25). For example, a client (or business customer) may
                                    have subscribed to the recognition feedback service which would allow
                                    them to receive updates on their products in the marketplace or social
                                    environment. In one scenario, an individual may be captured wearing a
                                    particular hat (or other article of clothing or accessory). The client is
                                    interested in knowing where in the world their hat products end up,
                                    what season/date it is worn, what time of day, etc. In another
                                    embodiment, the wearer's biometrics may also be captured, and their
                                    contributing device may receive the capture device's broadcast of
                                    them, wearing the hat. The Recognition Module (e.g. P008) may have
                                    an add-on specifically for the Recognition Feedback service, searching
                                    CaDI for subscribed clients' products and/or services. The Packager
                                    Module (e.g. X200) may similarly process a package for such an
                                    embodiment. In addition a sixth item may be a Recognition Feedback
                                    request, asking the rightfully claiming account owner if they would be
                                    interested   in supplying some       of their personal   details to the
                                    Recognition Feedback client, i.e. the hat company. Such details may
                                    include the person's year of birth and contact details. The contact
                                    details may utilized by the hat company to issue new product updates
                                    to that individual. An account owner may convey their particulars for
                                    this purpose in the reply communication to the capture described in the
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                              102
                                    following steps (e.g. particularly, those referencing Convey P042 and
                                    Transmit P044).
        [00511] At step 29 a contributing device receives (e.g. P028) the capture device's
        package transmission, via connectors P222F in Figure 25 and P222FF in Figure 27.
        [00512] At step 30 the package is buffered/cached (e.g. P029).
        [00513] At step 31 the package is checked for a trusted digital signature (e.g. P030).
        If no trusted signature the package may be deleted (e.g. P031). Otherwise the
        package proceeds to the next step.
        [00514] At step 32 the trusted package is processed by a Key Query Module (e.g.
        P032). This Module references the contributing device's P200 database (e.g. P220)
        of keys for a match in order to decrypt the capture device's encrypted package.
        [00515] At step 33 a key decision is returned (e.g. P033). If no corresponding key is
        found the encrypted package is deleted (e.g. P031). Otherwise, the package is
        decrypted (e.g. P034).
        [00516] At step 34 the package contents (or items) are correlated/processed (e.g.
        P210). For example, if the raw e.s. corresponds with a template stored in the
        contributing device's database (e.g. P220) it may be ('rightfully claimed') contributed if
        the expressions are within tolerance, or of value (e.g. P036). If not, it is deleted (e.g.
        P031). In another embodiment, the txt file (e.g. 'Read Me') is processed by the
        device, the capture device's Public Key is acknowledged and stored, and the
        respective unique key of the raw e.s. is contributed (e.g. W70 in Figure 28).
        [00517] Note: an Error Correction/Distortion Toleration Module (e.g. P037i) and Key
        Generator (e.g. P037ii) may be utilised by the contributing device, particularly during
        the 'seed' stage or for early account contributions. A similar process as that described
        for the capture device's modules would occur. These contributing device components
        would facilitate the generation of the keys which the contributing device used in step
        33 to decrypt the capture device's package.
        [00518] At step 35 the contributing device completes one or more or combination of
        the following: conveys or packages a message for the captured device, digitally signs
        the package with the contributing device's Private Key, encrypts the package with the
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                              103
        capture device's supplied Public Key and transmits the package, e.g. via P222GG in
        Figure 27 to P222G in Figure 25.
        [00519] At step 36 the capture device receives (e.g. P039) the contributing device's
        transmission.
        [00520] At step 37 the capture device decrypts the message with its Private Key and
        checks that the message is digitally signed (e.g. P040).
        [00521] At step 38 the capture device is conveyed or processes the contributing
        device's message (e.g. P041). Several embodiments are contemplated at this
        particular point, which were defined by the contributing device's message (e.g. P038)
        and/or processing (e.g. P210).
                             a. In one embodiment, the message conveyed to the capture device by
                                    the contributing device is that which was originally packaged by the
                                    capture device, e.g. the contents in the Pr e.s. txt file. This message
                                    may then instruct the capture device to issue (or transmit) the
                                    outstanding files (e.g. expression strings) which were associated to the
                                    captured account owner, but not of the account owner. Refer to
                                    FIGURES 61 and 62 for further description.
                             b. In another embodiment, contributing of the e.s. or decryption of the e.s.
                                    may be sufficient to authorize the account owner to convey special
                                    instructions to the capture device. These may include the account
                                    owner's: privacy constraints such as exclusion zone, shrouding and
                                    ghosting;   particulars  (e.g.  18+);   membership,    client, customer,
                                    subscriber or patron identification numbers; advertisements (e.g.
                                    business agent details); 'tags' (e.g. metadata); preferences (e.g.
                                    device customization settings); or orders for commanding or controlling
                                    devices such as robots, 'smart' vehicles and other semi-or fully
                                    autonomous machines.
                             c. In some embodiments, privacy constraints may impose restrictions or
                                    functions on capture devices such as delete all other e.s. of the
                                    account owner which was captured like the one received by the
                                    contributing device, which is a form of shrouding. In one embodiment,
                                    the capture device is ordered to expire any other data information in
                                    the buffer/cache (e.g. P019). In another embodiment, the capture
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                              104
                                    device may be ordered to superimpose, blur, pixelate, black-out an
                                    image such as that related or of the account owner; again, a form of
                                    shrouding. In another embodiment, the capture device may be ordered
                                    to prevent the conveyance (e.g. P042) of Internet 'tags', for example,
                                    of the account owner being return as augmented reality information, for
                                    example on the owner of the capture device's display or recordings.
                                    This is a form of ghosting. In another embodiment, the capture device
                                    is ordered to not function or fully-function within a (moving) exclusion
                                    zone of the account owner, or not to encourage inside that exclusion
                                    zone.
        [00522] At step 39, following instructions receive from the contributing device, the
        capture device engages in a secure connection with the contributing device. In one
        embodiment, the capture device transmits (e.g. P045) the e.s. which did not correlate
        with the account owner but were recognized as being in the same scene as the
        account owner, so these other e.s. may now be issued as tags to be contributed in an
        Association's folder, for example (refer to categories in Figure 28).
        [00523] At step 40 the contributing device receives (e.g. P028) the contributing
        devices transmission, via connectors P222H in Figure 25 and P222HH in Figure 27.
        [00524] Figure 28 depicts one embodiment of the structure of the contribution storage
        device (e.g. P220 in Figure 27).
        [00525] The structure may be divided up into six (6) levels, from Classes to Template
        Files. An example directory address is illustrated for each folder path.
        [00526] W05 may represent the root directory.
        [00527] Class designation may represent a different weighted sensor. In one
        scenario, Class A sensors may be registered (or digitally signed). This may mean that
        they are owned/operated by a particular party such as a government, which may
        entail that they are trusted devices that are kept under controlled conditions and are
        regularly maintained, calibrated and audited. Class B may represent corporate
        enterprise, and these device may be similarly maintained, calibrated and audited but
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   105
        are not government devices, so they have a lower weight. Class C may represent
        civilian or consumer devices, etc.
        [00528] At W50 'Algorithm' may represent the type of recognition algorithm or
        software (e.g. 'add-on') which the capture device used to, for example, generate ChDI
        from CaDI. The Recognition Module (e.g. P008 in Figure 26) may represent the
        component which operates this recognition algorithm software. 'Sensor'                may
        represent the type/model of capture device which captured the source, in this
        scenario which sensor captured the facial biometric.
        [00529] At W30 this Latitude Longitude folder may represent the individual's face
        being captured by a device at a perspective normally taken for portrait photographs,
        i.e. 'head-on'.
        [00530] Figure 29 depicts one embodiment of a txt file expression string, which is one
        embodiment of ChDI.
        [00531] Recognition software (algorithms or 'platform' 'add-ons') are responsible for
        generating these expression strings. Different add-ons may generate different strings,
        e.g. different algorithms may comprise the same expressions (number and type) in a
        string but they are ordered differently, or there are different measurements (i.e.
        expressions) and/or different number of expressions in a generated string.
        [00532] Reference Numbers in the metadata may represent links (or associations) to
        contributions in other txt files, in the same or another folder within the root directory.
        For example, an individual's facial and iris biometrics may have been captured in the
        same scene, at the same time. Thus, the two respective expression strings which
        were contributed would each reference the other in their metadata to establish a
        known relationship. Such referencing need not occur only between the same
        Categories, nor any other same folder or file within the root directory W05.
        [00533] In some embodiments, Date, Time and Location metadata could all be used
        for the recency and location closeness tests, e.g. when calculating the respective
        weights to generate the Recognition Values.
        [00534] Figure 30 depicts one embodiment of a contribution, i.e. the plaintext pasting
        or entry of an expression string into a txt file.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   106
        [00535] At CN1a, when characteristic data information is contributed to a Profile
        Account/eLicence at least one expression string is added to a template txt file. Each
        occasion an expression string is contributed to a template txt file (and, consequently,
        a new average string is calculated) both lines (i.e. both identifiers or data arrays) are
        used to generate keys for asymmetric encryption (or, for example, binding a
        cryptographic key with the data arrays such as by using biometric-based key release
        or biometric-based key generation). In one embodiment, the keys may be generated
        using an RSA or DSA algorithm.
        [00536] In one embodiment, Java programs can be used to store the Public and
        Private
        Key files after key generation and encryption process. In another embodiment, Black
        Box ('functional testing') and White Box ('glass box') test design methods may be
        used for testing the applications.
        [00537] At CN1b, average string is the same as the first string entry since there is
        only one string to average.
        [00538] Figure 31 depicts a second contribution.
        [00539] At CN2, this is the average string of the two above contributed strings.
        [00540] In one embodiment, a maximum number above or below, or percentage
        difference from, the average measurement value for a particular characteristic (e.g.
        expression) would be set or permitted. For example, the 'deA062.50' expression was
        0.50 greater in value than the deA expression average in Contribution number 1. If
        this value was greater than or equal to +/-1.00 than the average value then this
        characteristic measurement may be rejected, representing a 'fail' (e.g. failed
        correlation) for that expression. In one embodiment, failed expressions (if contributed)
        may be represented as 'deAfff.ff'. Too many failed expressions would result in that
        whole expression string not being permitted for contribution. Therefore, an acceptable
        number of failed or error expressions are permitted. Further, the term which
        represents the minimum number of 'passes' (or minimum percentage out of the total
        characteristic measurements in an expression string) and, thus, the maximum fails or
        errors is called a 'contribution threshold' value.
        [00541] In another embodiment, a txt file may not be contributed to despite meeting or
        exceeding the contribution threshold value, because the txt file may be linked to
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   107
        another txt file in the same or different Sub-Set folder. In other words, expression
        strings in facial biometric txt files may not be contributed if expression strings for ear
        or iris biometrics do not meet their respective contribution threshold values. In other
        words, an individual's face matches but their ears or eyes do not; thus, since these
        are programmed to be linked biometrics all expression strings are failed.
        [00542] Figure 32 depicts a third contributions.
        [00543] At CN3, these are error expressions. These return a blank result, i.e. not
        counted towards next average calculation. In one scenario the individual's nose may
        have been covered, i.e. not observable by the capture device (i.e. Sensor 1).
        [00544] In one embodiment, a maximum number or percentage of error expressions
        are permitted in an expression string, otherwise a line is rejected for contribution,
        instead it is deleted or the decision concluded is it does not match this individual.
        [00545] Figure 33 is a flowchart depicting typical divisions of ChDI (e.g. X100).
        [00546] In one embodiment, ChDI is divided into Private X110 and Public X120 ChDI.
        [00547] Private may further be divided into Entity X140 and Not Entity X150. Entity
        X140 means ChDI which is of or about the account owner, i.e. they were the capture
        subject or source. Not Entity X150 is the opposite to X140, e.g. ChDI of another
        entity.
        [00548] Entity X140 ChDI is contributed X160 to a 'rightfully claiming' account owner.
        However, Not Entity X150 is not contributed as being of the account owner; although,
        may be contributed as 'tags' (or associations).
        [00549] Pubic ChDI X120 may be automatically contributed X125, e.g. as 'memories'
        to a 'Past Experience' Module or 'Recognition Feedback' Module (e.g. P111 EE and
        P027 in Figure 27).
        [00550] Figure 34 provides description on one embodiment of a Packager Module
        X200.
        [00551] At X201 the Packager Module X200 receives the 'raw' ChDI (e.g. expression
        strings and metadata).
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  108
        [00552] At X202 the ChDI is sorted into their Private (Pr) X203 and Public (Pu) X204
        designations, in one embodiment, according to data information within the expression
        string metadata.
        [00553] Pu X204 may undergo three embodied paths, e.g. be directed straight to the
        next process of being encrypted at P018i in Figure 26, skipping that aforementioned
        step and instead being digitally signed at P018ii in Figure 26, or Pu ChDI may be
        organized according to its metadata X205.
        [00554] Pr X203 undergos metadata organising and code generating at X205.
        Description on these processes are illustrated in X210, e.g. X211, X212, X213 and
        X219.
        [00555] At X21 1 the expression strings are listed sequentially as received by the
        Packaging Module X200, for example.
        [00556] At X212 the expression strings (e.s.) are organised according to their
        respective metadata, e.g. [md 1] and [md 2].
        [00557] At X207 the organised e.s. are then individually packaged. An example
        package for 'Pr e.s. A [md 1]' is described at X222. In one embodiment, the contents
        of the package comprise four (4) items, as follows: (1) e.s. A [md 1] (e.g. raw
        expression string), (2) a txt file (e.g. device 'Read Me'), which contains the unique
        codes for e.s. C
        [md 2] (e.g. X217) and e.s. D [md 2] (e.g. X218), (3) the capture device's Public Key
        and
        (4) a reserved location for the principal expression string's unique key. One reason
        unique codes of the [md 2] expression strings were included in the txt file was to later
        convey a message to a contributing device, to state that these expression string are
        likely not the entity according to recognition add-on software, however since they
        were captured in the same scene, at the same time they are relevant to ChID which
        was of the entity. The [md 2] expression strings will later be contributed to an account
        owner's device as tags (or associations).
        [00558] In another package embodiment, Pr e.s. C [md 2] (e.g. X217) is the principal
        e.s. Its package contents would comprise: (1) itself, e.g. raw e.s., (2) the unique
        codes for e.s. A [md 1] (e.g. X214), e.s. B [md 1] (e.g. X215) and e.s. n [md 1] (e.g.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   109
        X216), (3) the capture device's Public Key and (4) a reserved spot for the unique key
        generated by P016 and P017 in Figure 26 for e.s. C [md 2] (e.g. X217).
        [00559] X219 depicts the generation of a unique code for individual expression
        strings.
        [00560] After packaging the data information is sent to X209, e.g. P01 8i in Figure 26.
        [00561] Figure 35 is flowchart describing one embodiment of a Private Package Y100
        being managed (e.g. received and processed) by recipient devices, e.g. at P222FF in
        Figure 27.
        [00562] Throughout Figure 35 the flowchart cells provide examples of potentially
        corresponding steps in other figures.
        [00563] The embodiment described for Figure 35 is different to that described for
        Figure 34, in that this Pr Package Y1 00 contains sub-packages. For example, this Pr
        Package Y100 may contain all the individual packages which were created at X207 in
        Figure 34, rather than Pr Package Y100 representing one of those individual X207
        packages. However, for this example only two are illustrated, i.e. Locked A file Y1 15
        (which may represent e.s. A [md 1]) and Locked B file Y180 (which may represent
        e.s. C [md 2]).
        [00564] At Y1 10 in Figure 35 the receiving device, e.g. contributing device P200,
        checks the digitally signed status of the incoming package.
        [00565] At Y115 and Y180 the contributing device unpacks the Pr Package after
        being satisfied with the digital signature from the capture device.
        [00566] At Y120 the contributing device sources the corresponding key to decrypt the
        Locked A file, however is not able to with the Locked B file Y1 85.
        [00567] The Locked B file is deleted Y1 90 at this point. However, the unlocked A file
        Y120 has its contents revealed. The contents are similarly described as for X222 in
        Figure 34; although, item (4) is not shown in Figure 35. The package comprised (i) a
        txt file message Y125, (ii) the entity's raw Pr ChDI or expression string Y130 and the
        capture device's Public Key A Y135.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   110
        [00568] The message Y125 may colloquially be as follows: "Recipient device, you
        were only able to unlock the Locked A file in the Pr Package. Therefore, since you
        were not able to unlock the Locked B file the other Pr ChID is not of you, so send me
        a reply and I will send you the other Pr ChID as 'tags' instead." An auto-reply
        message may be generated at this point Y140. Concurrently, the entity's ChDI may
        be contributed Y145, provided it met or exceeded contribution threshold values.
        [00569] At Y1 50 the contributing device initiates a secure connection process with the
        capture device, colloquially explained as follows: "Okay, let's establish a secure
        connection. Here are my connection details and my Public Key B. I have digitally
        signed with my Private Key B and have encrypted this reply package with your Public
        Key A."
        [00570] At Y155 the capture device receives the contributing device's transmission.
        And colloquially acknowledges as follows: "Okay, I have received. I decrypted with
        my Private Key A, and noticed your digital signature. I've read your message, and will
        send those Pr ChDI which were not of you to you for contribution as 'tags' (i.e.
        Associations) via our secure connection. Before I transmit, I will first encrypt the
        transmission with your Public Key B and digitally sign with my Private Key A. I will use
        the connection details you supplied."
        [00571] At X160 the capture device transmits the new tag packages to the
        contributing device via the secure connection.
        [00572] At Y165 the contributing device receives the new package, and checks for a
        trusted digital signature.
        [00573] At Y1 70 the contributing device decrypts with its Private Key B.
        [00574] After decryption it contributes (e.g. P220) the new package contents, i.e.
        tags, to Associations, a folding within the Category directory in Figure 54.
        [00575] Figure 36 depicts one embodiment of the formation of a master expression
        string.
        [00576] For example, from time to time, the most recent average expression string
        (e.g. Z01 0, Z020, Z030 and Z040) from every template txt file (e.g. Z001, Z002, Z003
        and Z004) within the root directory (or any of its folders or sub-folders, etc) are copied
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                   111
        into a master recognizer txt file or master expression string txt file (e.g. Z100 or W12
        in Figure 28).
        [00577] In one embodiment, this master recognizer combines (e.g. serially) all the
        average expression strings, for example, into a master expression string. In another
        embodiment, the PAA orders each txt file's expression string in a particular order on
        the master string. This order may be determined based on one or more or
        combination of the following: the most reliable recognition source; capture device
        (e.g. sensor type/model); algorithm; sensor class (e.g. owner/operator credibility); etc.
        [00578] In one scenario, should an individual not have any values contributed within a
        particular txt file in any particular Sub-Set then the expression string for this txt file
        within the master expression string may be represented with values recognized as a
        'skip' or 'null' function. In other words, the master recognizer reader or Module (not
        shown) would interpret these functions as 'not yet contributed'.
        [00579] In one embodiment, a Recognition Value (RV) for a txt file is derived from the
        quantity of multi-samples, i.e. the number of contributed expression strings to a txt
        file. Each txt file has a Recognition Value Threshold, or Recognition Threshold (RT).
        If a txt file has not yet been contributed to, then it would generally return a zero
        percentage RV, and, therefore, not meet any RT set for it.
        [00580] In another embodiment, a master RV is generated from all the individual txt
        file RVs and compared against a master RT. The greatest weighting would generally
        be placed on expression strings which are positioned first in the ordered master
        expression string.
        [00581] In one format embodiment for an expression string in the master expression
        string the first component of the string may be that represented within square
        brackets or parentheses Z012. Comprised within these brackets are the expression
        string's code or directory address, i.e. where the average expression string came
        from in the structured contribution database.
        [00582] Figure 37 depicts a diagram for the 1:1 or 1:n matching of a txt file's average
        expression string with an incoming expression string search term Z210.
        [00583] In one embodiment, the incoming string Z210 is correlated against each txt
        file average expression string (e.g. Z110, Z120, Z130 and Z140).
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                        112
        [00584] In another embodiment, the incoming string Z210 is correlated against just
        the one txt file, i.e. the master template file or master expression string txt file Z200
        (or W12 in Figure 28). The search term string Z210 is queried against each average
        expression string in the master expression string (e.g. Z111, Z122, Z133 and Z144).
        [00585] Figure 38 describes one embodiment of how recognition accuracy values are
        fundamentally generated for a recognition account. In this Figure a 1:n query is
        illustrated, where an incoming expression string search term Z310 is correlated
        against a master expression string Z300.
        [00586] When an incoming string (i.e. its ChDI               measurement or expression
        sequence) matches Z315 with an average expression string in the master expression
        string the Correlate/Process Module (e.g. P210 in Figure 27) then checks tolerance
        against the contribution threshold (CT). Should the incoming string met or exceed a
        CT is may be contributed, however it is also at this point processed for recognition
        value (RV) against recognition thresholds (RT). In one embodiment, incoming strings
        may not pass CTs but RVs may still be generated.
        [00587] In one embodiment, after an incoming string is matched with its master
        expression string counterpart a Match Value (MV) % is calculated for it (e.g. Formula
         1 in Figure 38).
        [00588] For example, the Mean = Reference Term value (e.g. an expression's
        average value), and the Score = Search Term value (e.g. an expression's value in an
        incoming expression string).
        [00589]            In     one embodiment, if an   expression (e.g. a particular biometric
        measurement) is valued more significantly or critically (e.g. for the purpose of
        accurate recognition) a smaller standard deviation (SD) would generally be assigned
        to that expression.
        [00590] The smaller the SD the taller and steeper a bell curve would be. Therefore,
        any change in value different to the mean would result in a higher z score (plus or
        minus) change. This corresponds to less tolerance for difference for a particular score
        (or expression measurement value) relative to the mean value (e.g. the average
        value for an expression).
        [00591] A score on the mean is assigned a 100 % Match Value (MV). If a score is not
        on the mean it will result in a MV percentage change. This change is influenced by
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                  113
        the score's z score. The greater the absolute value of the score's z score the greater
        the MV percentage reduction.
        [00592] In one embodiment, if the z score is zero or the score equals the mean then
        the 100 % MV value is established. If the z score is not zero then Formula 1 may be
        used to calculate the MV %.
        [00593] In another embodiment, to calculate a Recognition Value (RV), for example,
        for an expression in an expression string Formula 2 is used.
        [00594] In one embodiment, to achieve a 'pass' result an RV % must be greater than
        or equal to 100 % (or 1.0).
        [00595] For example, the maximum 'contribution quantity weight', 'time weight' and
        'location closeness weight' possible is 1.0 (i.e. MV % x 1.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 = MV %). For
        example, 1.0 equals the x-axis limit on an exponential curve. The minimum weight
        possible is 0.0, or the smallest y value on the exponential curve. In one embodiment,
        a positive movement along the x-axis equals an increase in expression strings
        contributed, a decrease in time (i.e. recency) since an expression (or expression
        string) was last contributed, or a decrease in location distance between the most
        recent contribution and another contribution (e.g. the second most recent). The more
        contributions, the more recent a contribution, the closer the distance between one
        contribution and another, the closer these weights exponentially approach the limit of
         1.0, and the more 'trust' is subsequently placed on an originally calculated MV % (and
        every other calculation derived from this %).
        [00596] Figure 39 describes one embodiment method of generating overarching
        Recognition Values (RVs), i.e. factoring in all data information contributed and
        correlating for recognition purposes against incoming data information, for example.
        [00597] In one embodiment, a Layered Decision Tree is employed, as depicted in
        Figure 39. However, a Cascaded Decision Tree (not shown) has merit as well.
        [00598] As described for Figure 38 an RV may be generated for each expression.
        [00599] In one embodiment, all expression Recognition Values (RVs) in an
        expression string may then be averaged to arrive at a Sub-Set Recognition Value
        (SSRV). All Sub-Set RVs in a particular Set may also be averaged to arrive at a Set
        RV (SRV). All
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                    114
        Set RVs in a particular Sub-Category may be averaged to arrive at a Sub-Category
        RV (SCRV). All Sub-Category RVs in a particular Category may also be averaged to
        arrive at a Category RV (CRV). And, lastly, all Category RVs may be averaged to
        arrive at a Class RV. It is this Class RV which may represent the percentage %
        described as the end product in Figure 58.
        [00600] In another embodiment, and they are numerous, the Category RVs are not
        averaged, rather they are inputted into a Decision Tree, e.g. Figure 39. For example,
        RT1 an RV1 may represent the threshold and value for facial biometric, RT2 and RV2
        ear biometric, RTn and RVn iris biometric, etc. Whichever biometric Category has the
        highest recognition value or priority ranking would typically be represented first, i.e. as
        RT1 and RV1, and the least valued would be last. In sum, if a RV does not meet or
        exceed its corresponding RT then the next RT in the hierarchy list is adjusted,
        accordingly. The process repeats as necessary. At the end a pass Z418 or fail X417
        result is produced.
        In one embodiment, the account service provider sets the RTs, or the party pursuing
        the verification of an individual (i.e. an account holder) sets their own RTs as desired.
        The higher the RTs the more accurately recognized an individual needs to be with
        their recognition account.
        DISCLAIMERS
        [00601] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
        "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
        imply the inclusion of a stated inte.g.er or group of integers but not the exclusion of
        any other inte.g.er or group of integers.
        [00602] Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
        susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described.
        The invention includes all such variation and modifications.           The invention also
        includes all of the steps, features, formulations and compounds referred to or
        indicated in the specification, individually or collectively and any and all combinations
        or any two or more of the steps or features.
        [00603] Other definitions for selected terms used herein may be found within the
        detailed description of the invention and apply throughout. Unless otherwise defined,
        all other scientific and technical terms used herein have the same meaning as
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                           115
        commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention
        belongs.
        [00604] Although not required, the embodiments described with reference to the
        method, computer program, data signal and aspects of the system can be
        implemented                 via an application  programming  interface (API), an application
        development kit (ADK) or as a series of program libraries, for use by a developer, for
        the creation of software applications which are to be used on any one or more
        computing platforms or devices, such as a terminal or personal computer operating
        system or a portable computing device, such as a smartphone or a tablet computing
        system operating system, or within a larger server structure, such as a 'data farm' or
        within a larger transaction processing system.
        [00605] Generally, as program                  modules include routines, programs, objects,
        components and data files that perform or assist in the performance of particular
        functions, it will be understood that the functionality of the software application may
        be distributed across a number of routines, programs, objects or components to
        achieve the same functionality as the embodiment and the broader invention claimed
        herein. Such variations and modifications are within the purview of those skilled in the
        art.
        [00606] It will also be appreciated that where methods and systems of the present
        invention and/or embodiments are implemented by computing systems or partly
        implemented                 by computing systems then any appropriate computing system
        architecture may be utilised. This includes standalone computers, network computers
        and dedicated computing devices (such as field-programmable gate arrays).
        [00607] Where the terms "computer", "computing system" and "computing device" are
        used in the specification, these terms are intended to cover any appropriate
        arrangement of computer hardware for implementing the inventive concept and/or
        embodiments described herein.
        [00608] Where the terms "robotic device", "autonomous device" and "smart device"
        are used in the specification, these terms are intended to cover any appropriate
        device which is capable of receiving a command and utilising the command to
        perform a function, which may be either a "physical" function (i.e. movement) or a
        "virtual" function (e.g. interact with another device via electronic commands).
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                      116
        [00609] Where reference is made to cloud computing, the term refers to Internet
        based computing, wherein shared resources, software, and/or information are
        provided to one or more computing devices on-demand via the Internet (or other
        network).
        [00610] Where reference is made to communication standards, methods and/or
        systems robots or devices may transmit and receive data via a variety of forms: 3G,
        4G (CDMA/GSM),              Wi-Fi, Bluetooth,  other radio frequency, optical, acoustic,
        magnetic, GPS/GPRS, or any other form or method of communication that may
        become available from time to time.
10336306_1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                                117
CLAIMS:
1.             A package delivery system, comprising:
                           a robotic device operative to receive:
                           (i)      access to information relevant to an individual nominated to receive a
                                    package, the information being accessible in a format suitable for use in
                                    an identification situation;
                           (ii)     a first location of the individual nominated to receive a package and
                                    instructions to move toward the first location; and
                           (iii)    instructions to verify the identity of the individual from a secure
                                    distance from the individual;
                           a package associated with the robotic device, the package being receivable if
                           the individual is authenticated as the individual nominated to receive the
                           package;
                           wherein the robotic device is further operative to receive, after beginning to
                           move toward the first location and prior to reaching the first location, a second
                           location based at least in part on a location of the individual nominated to
                           receive the package, and instructions to move toward the second location
                           instead of continuing to move toward the first location.
2.             A robotic device when used in the system of Claims 1.
3.             A method for delivering a package by robotic device, comprising the steps of:
                           receiving information relevant to an individual nominated to receive a
                           package, formatting the information into a format suitable for use in an
                           identification situation, and storing the information in the format;
                           dispatching the robotic device with the package to the location of the
                           individual;
                           instructing the robotic device to verify the identity of the individual from a
                           secure distance from the individual;
                           identifying the individual for authentication from the secure distance by
                           accessing the stored information relevant to the individual and comparing it
                           with information provided by the individual in the identification situation;
10336302 1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                         118
                           authenticating the individual if the individual is nominated to receive the
                           package; and
                           delivering the package to the individual via the robotic device only if the
                           individual was authenticated.
4.             A method in accordance with Claim 3, wherein the step of dispatching the robotic
               device to the location of the individual comprises providing destination
               coordinates for the location of the individual.
5.             A method in accordance with Claim 4, wherein the robotic device is not
               dispatched until the individual is at or near the destination coordinates.
6.             A method in accordance with Claim 3, wherein the step of dispatching the robotic
               device to the location of the individual comprises providing geolocation data for
               the real-time location of the individual.
7.             A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein before the
               robotic device arrives at the location of the individual, the method further
               comprises the step of sending an enquiry to the individual asking for confirmation
               that the package is receivable.
8.             A method in accordance with Claim 7, wherein the robotic device only arrives at
               the location of the individual if the individual confirmed that the package is
               receivable.
9.             A method in accordance with Claim 7, wherein the robotic device is not
               dispatched until the individual confirms that the package is receivable.
10.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein in the
               step of receiving information relevant to an individual, the information is received
               when the individual orders the package.
10336302 1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                      119
11.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
               received information includes personal information.
12.            A method in accordance with any one of Claims 3 to 11, wherein the received
               information includes biometric information.
13.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
               received information is associated with an electronic identifier.
14.            A method in accordance with Claim 12, wherein the step of identifying the
               individual for authentication comprises comparing biometric information provided
               by the individual in the identification situation with the stored biometric information
               relevant to the individual.
15.            A method in accordance with Claim 13, wherein the step of identifying the
               individual for authentication comprises comparing the stored electronic identifier
               with the electronic identifier provided by or for the individual in the identification
               situation.
16.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step
               of identifying the individual for authentication is undertaken at a computing device
               remote from the robotic device.
17.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step
               of identifying the individual for authentication is undertaken at a computing device
               local to the robotic device.
18.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein if the
               individual is authenticated, a command generates remote from the robotic device
               to deliver the package.
10336302 1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                            120
19.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein if the
               individual is authenticated, a command generates local to the robotic device to
               deliver the package.
20.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
               package is a physical package.
21.            A method in accordance with any one of the preceding claims, wherein if the
               individual is authenticated in the identification situation, the package is physically
               collectable by or deposited with or at the individual.
22.            A method in accordance with Claim 21, wherein if the individual is authenticated
               in the identification situation the individual is granted access to a physical space.
23.            A method in accordance with any one of Claims 3 to 19, wherein the package is a
               virtual package.
24.            A method in accordance with Claim 23, wherein if the individual is authenticated
               in the identification situation, the individual is given access to the virtual package
               via an interface or download access.
25.            A method for delivering a package by robotic device, comprising the steps of:
                           receiving information relevant to an individual nominated to receive a
                           package, formatting the information into a format suitable for use in an
                           identification situation, and storing the information in the format;
                           dispatching the robotic device with the package to the location of the
                           individual nominated to receive the package;
                           instructing the robotic device to verify the identity of the individual from a
                           secure distance from the individual;
10336302 1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

                                                            121
                           wherein before the robotic device arrives at the location of the individual, an
                           enquiry is sent to the individual asking for confirmation that the individual is
                           available for an identification situation in order to receive the package.
26.            A method in accordance with Claim 25, wherein the step of dispatching the
               robotic device to the location of the individual comprises providing destination
               coordinates for the location of the individual.
27.            A method in accordance with Claim 25, wherein the step of dispatching the
               robotic device to the location of the individual comprises providing geolocation
               data for the real-time location of the individual.
28.            A method in accordance with any one of Claims 25 to 27, wherein the robotic
               device only arrives at the location of the individual if the individual confirmed that
               the package is receivable.
29.            A method in accordance with any one of Claims 25 to 27, wherein the robotic
               device is not dispatched until the individual confirms that the package is
               receivable.
30.            A method in accordance with any one of Claims 3 to 29, wherein the individual is
               a second or another robotic device.
31.            A package delivery system making use of the method of any one of Claims 3 to
               30.
32.            A robotic device when used in the method of any one of Claims 3 to 30.
10336302 1 (GHMatters) P102810.AU.2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/50

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/50

                                                                         <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                                         CC4                                             Public (+ Private)
                                                                  Profile Account App
                                                       STORE                            capture data info
                                                                                        stored on this App
                                                            CHARACTERISTIC
                                                            DATA INFO                    CC3
                    Whole           PROFILE ACCOUNT
FORMING                                                                                          Only Public
                                                                                                capture data
                                                                       Profile Recognition App
                                                                               CAPTURE         info stored on
                                                                                 DATA             this App
                                                                                INFO
                                                                                                       CC2
                                                            CC1
                                    PROFILES                               ACTIVITY PROFILES
                    Parts
                            (Single moments in time)                     (Multiple time moments)
                                                                                                                    3/50
BUILDING/REFINING
                             SINGLE COMPONENT                            MULTIPLE COMPONENTS
                                  (Atoms)                                  (Molecules)
                                                 Figure 3

                                                    4/50
<removed-date>                                           C111
                    C001             C002               C003            C004         C005
<removed-apn>
               WEARABLE                                             SECURITY     SECURITY
                                SMART        COMPUTING
               CAMERA &                                            CAMERA &     CAMERA &
                                 PHONE           DEVICE
              MICROPHONE                                          MICROPHONE   MICROPHONE
                         (AT LEAST ONE) COMMUNICATION NETWORK (OR INTERNET)
                                                          C60
                                                                                    C100
                         C006               C007               C008
                                                                        (AT LEAST ONE)
                               HEAD<U+2704>                 SMART          COMPUTING DEVICE
               SMART       MOUNTED                FASHION/               (SERVER)
                PHONE        CAMERA &              (WEARABLE)
                            MICROPHONE             HEALTH TECH
                                               Figure 4

                                                             5/50
<removed-date>
                                               D1
                               START
                                                                                                          D9
                                                        D2
               Prospective applicant (PA) wishes to           PA enters into PAA (to set as their PAAs
               obtain and activate a Profile Account          unique ID no.) the unique document ID
<removed-apn>
                                                                      no. of one of their prescribed
                                                        D3         (preferably, government<U+2704>issued) ID
                                                                documents; or completed automatically
                PA visits Registry website on their           if ID documents were softcopy versions
                          computing device
                                                        D4                                                D10
              On the website, PA selects create a new           PA uploads (i.e. contributes) to PAA on
                             account                           their device seed (capture) data info of
                                                                   themself (e.g. does a chair swivel
                                                        D5                      capture)
              PA downloads Profile Account software
                  application (PAA) onto their                                                        D11
                       participating device                     Optional: PA provides express (written)
                                                                 informed consent to PAAs terms of
                                                        D6                      service
                PA installs PAA on their participating
                     device (e.g. smart phone)                                                        D12
                                                                   PAA conveys instructions to PA on
                                                        D7
                                                                 remaining steps required to complete
              PA enters into form fields (and/or scans,         the setup of their Profile Account (i.e. to
               inputs or uploads onto their PAA) their                         activate it)
                 required (ID document) particulars,
                    including their contact details                                                     D13
                                                                PA required to have (all) their prescribed
                                                        D8        ID documents verified by one or more
                                                                  prescribed (participating) parties, e.g.
                 PA sources data info (eg softcopy or            judge, solicitor, Police officer, Justice of
                 electronic ID document particulars)                           the Peace, etc
              from, preferably, CRRR parties for input
               into PAs Profile Account (PAA) via, for
                                                                                             D14
                example, online account set up with
                       respective CRRR parties                                       A
                                                    Figure 5

                     6/50
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                      E100
              E142    E144
                             E150
                      E145
              E140
                             E151
                      E148
              E130    E147
                             E120
                Figure 6

                                           7/50
<removed-date>
              Capture Device F100                                 F102
                                 F105       F110          F115
                                                                               F120
<removed-apn>
                        Processor F130                     Memory F140
              Computing Environment F200
                                             Optic and Acoustic Processing Engine
                                                                                      F155
                                                            F220
                   Operating System
                        F210                        Processing Unit F222
                                                     Memory Unit F223
                   Storage (database)
                                                   Recognition Engine F225
                  (eg categories, sets,
                          files)
                          F235                 Past Experience Module F229
                                          Figure 7

                                                      8/50
<removed-date>
                          (AT LEAST ONE) COMMUNICATION NETWORK (OR INTERNET)
                                    E5                  E60              E9
<removed-apn>                                                                         E6
                                                                         E8
                                         E10
                                                                                          E100
                                                                              E7
                                                              (AT LEAST ONE) COMPUTING DEVICE
                                    E4
                          E150
              E140
                                           E3
                                               E130
                           E1             E120
                             E110
                SWIVEL
                     E2
                                                 Figure 8

                                            9/50
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Profile Account platform and add<U+2704>on (e.g. recognition) software
                                             F55
                     Add<U+2704>on
              F601       F602        F603          F604                    Fn
                                   Profile Account platform
                                              F600
                                     Figure 8A

                                                 10/50
<removed-date>
                       Master recognizer (blending PAA<U+2704>contributed data information)
              y<U+2704>axis          F700                           y              F710
<removed-apn>
                                       F701
                                                                               F741
                                                 x<U+2704>axis                                       x
                                                             y               F740
                                                                               F741        F742
                                                                                              x
                                              Figure 8B

                                                 H1
                                                        11/50                                     H12
<removed-date>
                                START
                                                                Packaged communication contents
                                                       H2       queried against (long<U+2704>term) storage
                                                                             database
              Capture device (or component) captures
                           visual scene                                                           H13
                                                       H3         Query results produced and then
                                                                 interpreted for relevance or value
               Capture data info only stored on very
                     temporary buffer/cache                                                       H14
<removed-apn>
                                                       H4      If results interpreted as relevant/of
                                                                   value: private and/or public
              Buffered/cached data info is encrypted              characteristic data info (with its
                           in real<U+2704>time                       metadata) is contributed; and (ii) data
                                                       H5     info signal packaged for reply back to
                                                             communicating device (or component)
              Encrypted capture data info (decrypted               to establish dedicated/secure
                then) processed, i.e. converted into         communication channel between them
                characteristic data info in real<U+2704>time
                                                                                                  H15
                                                       H6
                                                                Contributing device (or component)
                Characteristic data info analysed for        communicates (e.g. broadcasts) packaged
                         relevance/value                      reply data info signal (to capture device)
                                                       H7                                         H16
                      Analysis results produced              Original capture device (or component)
                                                                receives the communicated reply
                                                       H8
                                                                                                  H17
                     Analysis results interpreted                Capture device (or component)
                                                               processes contributing devices (or
                                                       H9    components) reply before (agreeing to)
                 If results interpreted as relevant/of          establish communication channel
              value: private characteristic data info is
                                                                                                  H18
               packaged for communication; and (ii)
                   public characteristic data info is       If threshold values met or exceeded
                  (communicated then) contributed                  capture device (or component)
                                                               communicates (any other or) future
                                                      H10    characteristic data info (and metadata)
               Packaged characteristic data info (and        to contributing device (or component)
               associated metadata) communicated                                                  H19
                        (e.g. broadcasted)
                                                             Any capture (and/or characteristic) data
                                                      H11    info previously stored in buffer/cache is
                                                             deleted, once rightfully claimed or after
                  A prospective rightfully claiming                  set time has expired
                contributing device (or component)
               receives communication and stores in
                    very temporary buffer/cache                                                H20
                                                                                END
                                                      Figure 9

                                                   12/50
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Capture device (e.g. P100A)
                               E.g. P110A
                   Sensor(s)                     Processing (e.g. P300)
                               E.g. P120A                        E.g. P130A
                Pre<U+2704>processing                 Feature extractor
                                                                 E.g. P140A
                                                   Template
                Enrolment                          generator
                e.g. seed or
                registration captures                      Correlate;
                                                           Contribute
                                                                              E.g. a capture, contributing or
                                                                               AOA device; robot; vehicle;
                     Contributing device (e.g. P200)
                                                                               physical/virtual (un)lock; etc
                     Stored templates                  Matcher                     Application device
                               E.g. P220                   E.g. P210                            E.g. P444
                                              Figure 10

                                          13/50
<removed-date>                                     E30                                              E28
                                    E7
                   E1
<removed-apn>
                                                                                     E26
                                                  E25
                                                                                                E29
                        E3                                     (AT LEAST ONE)
                                                              COMMUNICATION
                                                                NETWORK (OR                     E24
                                                                 INTERNET)
                                                              E23
                              E4
                                                                                     E27
                                                        E6
                                                                                           E6
                                   E2
                                                                               E11
                                                                    E18
                                            E18
                                                               E10
                                                  [EA]
                                          E17
              E5                                             E16                                  E13
                              E14                  E20                    E9
                                                   [EB]
                             E8                                    E19         E15
                                                      E21
                                          E22                        E6
                                            E12
                                         Figure 11

                                                      14/50
<removed-date>
                                    G1
                           A
                                         G2                            G9                                 G16
              Applicant visits Registrys    Verifier logs into (eg           Applicants (ID document)
               website for participating      unlocks) their device, if         particulars: originals (e.g.
                verifier in their area       not already logged<U+2704>in              hardcopies) and PAA<U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                 inputted (eg softcopies)
                                         G3                               G10            verified
                                                Optional: verifiers
                Preferably, applicant
                                              verifying<U+2704>PAA device(s)                                     G17
               schedules appointment
                                              may detect presence of
                    with verifier
                                               the applicants PAA<U+2704>               Repeat steps G2<U+2704>G17
                                                installed device(s)              for/with other verifiers
                                         G4
                                                                          G11
              Applicant attends verifier          Optional: verifiers
                    appointment               verifying<U+2704>PAA device may
                                                                                            END             G18
                                              initiate a user (interface)
                                         G5              option
              Optional: applicants PAA                                   G12
                    may receive and
                 contribute (tagged)        Verifier may cause their
                characteristic data info      verifying<U+2704>PAA device to
                  from (participating)          begin a verification
                capture devices within                 session
              proximity of (or leading up
                to) verification session                                  G13
                        position              Verifiers verifying<U+2704>PAA
                                              device begins conveying
                                         G6     verification session
                Applicant meets with                instructions
                       verifier
                                         G7                               G14
                   Verifier realises            Applicant captures
                applicants verification      (and/or scans) themself
                        intent
                                                                          G15
                                         G8
                                                Verifier views (and/or
                Verifier retrieves their        listens to) applicants
              verifying (smart) device         seed (surveillance)
              with verifying<U+2704>version PAA           capture data [EA]
                       installed
                                                 Figure 12

                                                    15/50
<removed-date>
              Applicant Name                                                   Date of Birth (DOB)
              Last Name
              First Name
              Middle Name
<removed-apn>
              Residential Address (PO Box not accepted)
                Unit/Street Number        Street Name                   Suburb/Town/City
               State            Postcode/Zip      Email addresses
              Telephone Numbers
               Mobile 1                                   Mobile 2
               Home                                       Work
              Identification details and ID documents
                                          Primary Document   Second Document     n Document
              Document Type
              Document Issued by
              Document Number
              Date of Issue
              Place of Issue
              Expiry Date
              Photo or Signature on ID
              Date of Birth
              Points
                                                                                            Total Points
              Profile Account unique ID number (generated)
                                               Figure 13

                                                    16/50
<removed-date>
                    Applicants (government issued) ID document no. entered (e.g. 0123456789)                J01
                       ID documents Type, Issued by, Place of Issue, etc (Type Code) assigned             J02
                                   (e.g. AUS, NSW, Driver Licence = AUSNSWDL)
<removed-apn>
                      ID document no. combined with Type Code (e.g. 0123456789 AUSNSWDL)                     J03
                                                                                                             J04
                         0123456789 AUSNSWDL becomes Profile Accounts unique ID no.
                                Unique (random) no. generated (e.g. B9876543210K)                            J05
                   Both numbers associated, Profile Accounts ID no. split into (encrypted) packets
                                                                B9876543210K = 1[05AW]
                       0123456789AUSNSWDL
                                                                B9876543210K = 2[16UD]                       J06
                                                                B9876543210K = 3[27SL]
                                                                B9876543210K = 4[38N]
                   1[05AW]; 2[16UD]; 3[27SL]; 4[38N]; 5[49S]
                                                                B9876543210K = 5[49S]
                                                                                                             J07
                 Group 1           Group 2              Group 3           Group 4            Group 5
              B9876543210K      B9876543210K       B9876543210K        B9876543210K       B9876543210K
                = 1[05AW]         = 2[16UD]                               = 4[38N]           = 5[49S]
                                                     = 3[27SL]
                                                                                                             J08
                            Police/Court                                  Account holder
              Preferably, after warrant obtained each      Optionally, automatic notification (e.g. email)
              packet (decrypted) combinedrevealing        sent, if any Group discloses or accesses their
                  ID document no. and Type Code                 held packet (still encrypted or not)
                                                     Police/Court
                   Search their databases for that ID document no. and Type Code to reveal entity            J09
                                            associated with that identity
                                               Figure 14

                                                     17/50
<removed-date>                                             K100
                                                                                                  K04
                                                                   K01
                                  K08
<removed-apn>
                                                                         K10                      (AT LEAST ONE)
                                                             K09
                                                                                                   COMPUTING
                                                 K03                              K02
                                                                                                      DEVICE
                    K43            K07                                                                  K70
                                                                                 K10
                                                                                      K05
                          PAA                                                                K46
                          K50A                                            K06
                                                       K41
                                                                                  (AT LEAST ONE)
                                 K42                                             COMMUNICATION
                                                                                   NETWORK (OR
                                                                                    INTERNET)
                                                                                        K60
                                                K44
                                                                         K45
                  (AT LEAST ONE)
                 COMMUNICATION
                   NETWORK (OR                                                                            K28
                                                                                  PAA
                    INTERNET)
                                                                                  K50V
                       K60G                    K32                                                          K29
                                       K31
              K47                        K24                                     K30
                                                                                K26
                                         K22                                                      K27
              (AT LEAST ONE)                                       K24
               COMPUTING                                                                    K25
                  DEVICE                                                   K23
                    K80                                K21
                                               Figure 15

                                              18/50
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                     L200
              L2
              L3      Prospective              L1       Prospective   L100
              L4      Applicants                        Applicant
              L8         PAA
                                                   L9
                    L5          L7
                                            L300
                      ID document
                        database
                   (e.g. government)
                          server
                                       Figure 16

                                                                19/50
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                               Applicant                                                 Verifier
                  Answers questions (applicant speaks) 1.               1. Vocal question
                                 Conference audio test (i)              2. Visual question
                                (& PAA voice recognition)
                                                                        3. Send (e.g. text) message via PAA
                              Conference video test (ii)
                 (& PAA anatomical speaking recognition)                4. Witness audio from applicant
                                           PAA/PRA test (iii)           5. Witness video from applicant
              Biometric capture (finger/palmprint scan) 2.              6. Witness PAA interaction by applicant
                                                         Figure 17

                              20/50
<removed-date>
                                                      M2
                 Verification session commences
                                                      M3
                Verifier (system) conveys session
<removed-apn>
                   instructions to the applicant
                                                      M4
              Applicant performs instructed captures
                 (or scans), witnessed by verifier
                             (system)
                                                      M5
              Applicants captures (or scans) result in
              contributions to their Profile Account
                                                      M6
               Following contributions, the verifier
                    (system) may be notified
                      Figure 18

                                              21/50
<removed-date>
                                    N1
                           A                                               N6
                                         N2          Optionally, applicant
<removed-apn>
                                                      informed of items
               PA completes activities            required to present during
              described in steps L1 to L5                 conference
                          in
                                         N3
                                                                           N7
                PA builds/refines PAA               Preferably, applicant
               characteristic data info            conveyed appointment
               while ID document are              reminder and instructions
                 being authenticated
                                                                           N8
                                         N4
                                                      Applicant or verifier
                 Optionally, applicant             initiates conference (e.g.
               schedules, in advance, a            contacts the other party
              virtual (online) verification       to establish a connection)
               conference appointment
                                                                           N9
                                         N5        Conference proceedings
                                                   commence (e.g. verifier
                Applicant informed via             questions conveyed to
              their PAA device(s) when                    applicant)
                  the virtual (online)
                                                                           N10
                verification conference
               prerequisites have been            Conference may conclude
                      satisfied (e.g.
                characteristic data info
              meets/exceeds threshold
               and ID documents have                                         N11
                                                             END
               passed authentication)
                                       Figure 19

                                                                                        22/50
<removed-date>
                                                                                        Authenticate User
                                                       Secure Reader                                             Certificate Authority
                                                         2000                              2002
                                            Device initiates                  Request CA SSL                   Receive SSL              2004
               Establish Secure Comms
                                           secure connection                    Certificate                      request
                                                   2010                                    2008
                                                                                                                  Return            2006
                                            End            Valid?              Validate Cert.
                                                                                                                 SSL Cert.
                                                    No
                                                                 Yes
<removed-apn>
                                            2014        Establish SSL           2012
                                                       connection to
                                                         CA Service
                                          SSL tunnel
                                            open
                                                           2016                           2018                      2020                             2022
                                        Device initiates            Pass Public key and                   Receive                         Validate
                                        data exchange                request exchange                 exchange request                   Public key
                                                                2030                     2028                         2026                Encrypt
                                              Decrypt
                                             test data                    Listen for                     Encrypted                      session test
              Validate Device
                                             with local                 encrypted data                session test data                  data with
                                            Private key                                                                                  Public key
                                                                                                                          2034                       2024
                                                                2032
                                            Reply with                                                    Decrypted          No
                                            decrypted                                                    data match?                         End
                                              data
                                                                    2042           End                                                               2036
                                                                                 No                                Yes
                                                       2044                                  2040
                                                                                                         Acknowledge              2038
                                          Valid data                    Yes
                                        exchange open                           Approved?                   device
                                                                                                           identity
                                                       2046              2048                2056                                 2060/2064
                                         Authenticate         Request local    Request                Match ID                          No
                                             User             user identity authentication           to ID Store           Valid?                End
              Authenticate Biometrics
                                                                               2050                                                             No
                                                                                                                             Yes
                                                              Request user           Package data      2058
                                                               password              and encrypt                        Perform
                                                                                      with CA key                     password to               Valid?
                                                                                                          2062         ID match
                                                              Request user                                                                           Yes
                                                               biometrics                   2054                           Compare
                                                                              2052                      2066              template to
                                                                                                                         Template Store
                                                                                           2072
                                                                  Yes                               Return positive                        No
                                                                          Approved?                 authentication           Valid?                  End
                                                         2076
                                                                              No                                                  Yes
                                        Authenticated                                       End           2070                                     2068
                                                                               2074
                                                                                Figure 20

                                                                                        23/50
<removed-date>
                                                                                          Identify User
                                                      Secure Reader                                           Certificate Authority
                                                          2000                            2002
                                           Device initiates                    Request CA SSL                Receive SSL            2004
              Establish Secure Comms
                                          secure connection                      Certificate                   request
                                                   2010                                   2008
                                                                                                               Return            2006
                                           End              Valid?             Validate Cert.
                                                                                                              SSL Cert.
                                                    No
                                                                  Yes
<removed-apn>
                                           2014           Establish SSL          2012
                                                         connection to
                                                           CA Service
                                         SSL tunnel
                                           open
                                                            2016                         2018                    2020                            2022
                                       Device initiates              Pass Public key and                 Receive                         Validate
                                       data exchange                  request exchange               exchange request                   Public key
                                                                  2030                   2028                     2026                 Encrypt
                                             Decrypt
                                            test data                      Listen for                   Encrypted                    session test
              Validate Device
                                            with local                   encrypted data              session test data                data with
                                           Private key                                                                                Public key
                                                                                                                         2034                    2024
                                                                  2032
                                           Reply with                                                    Decrypted         No
                                           decrypted                                                    data match?                        End
                                             data
                                                                     2042          End                                                           2036
                                                                                 No                             Yes
                                                         2044                                 2040
                                                                                                       Acknowledge               2038
                                         Valid data                      Yes
                                       exchange open                            Approved?                 device
                                                                                                         identity
                                                                                             2088                2090
                                                         2078
                                                                                     Request               Match
                                          Validate                                                       template to
                                        User identity                                identity           Template Store
                                                                Request user                                                                No
                                                  2080           password                                                       Valid?
                                                                                  Package data
              Identify Biometrics
                                                                                  and encrypt                 2094           Yes
                                                                Request user       with CA key                                      2092
                                                  2082           biometrics                              Compare                                 End
                                                                                                        template to
                                                                                                         password
                                                            Create password                  2086
                                              2084              package                                                                        No
                                                                                                                                   Valid?
                                                                                             2100                     2098               Yes     End
                                                                        Yes                                   Return
                                                                                Approved?                    positive ID
                                                                                        No                                                     2096
                                                          2104
                                          Identity                   2102          End
                                         confirmed
                                                                                 Figure 21

                                                                                         24/50
<removed-date>
                                                                                            Decrypt data
                                                       Secure Reader                                              Certificate Authority
                                                         2000                               2002
                                            Device initiates                   Request CA SSL                   Receive SSL              2004
               Establish Secure Comms
                                           secure connection                     Certificate                      request
                                                   2010                                     2008
                                                                                                                   Return            2006
                                            End             Valid?              Validate Cert.
                                                                                                                  SSL Cert.
                                                    No
                                                                  Yes
<removed-apn>
                                            2014        Establish SSL            2012
                                                       connection to
                                                         CA Service
                                          SSL tunnel
                                            open
                                                            2016                           2018                      2020                             2022
                                        Device initiates             Pass Public key and                   Receive                         Validate
                                        data exchange                 request exchange                 exchange request                   Public key
                                                                  2030                    2028                         2026                Encrypt
                                              Decrypt
                                             test data                     Listen for                     Encrypted                      session test
              Validate Device
                                             with local                  encrypted data                session test data                  data with
                                            Private key                                                                                   Public key
                                                                                                                           2034                       2024
                                                                  2032
                                            Reply with                                                     Decrypted          No
                                            decrypted                                                     data match?                         End
                                              data
                                                                     2042           End                                                               2036
                                                                                  No                                Yes
                                                       2044                                   2040
                                                                                                          Acknowledge              2038
                                          Valid data                     Yes
                                        exchange open                            Approved?                   device
                                                                                                            identity
                                                       2046               2048                2056                                 2060/2064
                                         Authenticate         Request local    Request                 Match ID                          No
                                             User             user identity authentication            to ID Store           Valid?                End
              Authenticate Biometrics
                                                                                2050                                                             No
                                                                                                                              Yes
                                                              Request user            Package data      2058
                                                               password               and encrypt                        Perform
                                                                                       with CA key                     password to               Valid?
                                                                                                           2062         ID match
                                                              Request user                                                                            Yes
                                                               biometrics                    2054                           Compare
                                                                               2052                      2066              template to
                                                                                                                          Template Store
                                                                                            2072
                                                                   Yes                               Return positive                        No
                                                                           Approved?                 authentication           Valid?                  End
                                                         2076
                                                                               No                                                  Yes
                                        Authenticated                                        End           2070                                     2068
                                                                                2074
              Decrypt
                                                         2106               2110
                                                                                          Return
                                         Decrypt data                                    decrypted
                                           request
                                                           2108
                                                                Decrypt data
                                                                                           data             Figure 22

                                                                  25/50
<removed-date>
                                                             Single trusted device
                                       Device                                                     BIOCA
                       2300                   2302                 2304            2306
                                          18+               18+ App           BIOCA
              User initiated          Application          establishes    returns Public
                request to            connects to            secure          key and
              confirm age is           the public          connection      establishes
                 over 18                network             to BIOCA        PKI tunnel
<removed-apn>
                                                                                        2310
                                       18+ App             2308               BIOCA
                                       requests                           validates the                          No
                                        trusted                           trust level of           Trusted?              End
                                      connection                          the devices/
                                       to BIOCA                            application
                                                                                                          Yes
                                                                                                                       2312
                                                                                                     BIOCA               2314
                                                                                                  establishes
                                                                                                  trusted link
                                2316                2318           2320            2322
                  18+ App                 18+ App                               BIOCA
                 asks end               attaches its          18+ App          validates                         No
                  user for               Public key            sends         the identity            Found?             End
                 password                 to data             data to         of the end
                    and                   payload              BIOCA             user
                 palmprint                                                                                 Yes
                                                                                                                     2324
                                         18+ Public                                                               2326
                                            key
                                                                                                      BIOCA
                                                                            End user               returns end
                                                                           Public key              user Public
                                                                                                       key
                                2328
                 18+ App                                                      BIOCA               2330
                sends end                                                 validates the                          Yes
                user Public                                               trust level of             Found?
                key to 18+                                                the devices/
                server for                                                 application
                age match                                                                            No
                                                                                           2332
                               2336                                         Under 18         No
                                                                            response                 Over 18?
                 18+ App                                                                                   Yes
                shows the                                                                                         2334
                 response
                                                                                                     Over 18
                                                                                                    response
                                                           Figure 23

                                                              26/50
<removed-date>
                                                           Dual trusted devices
                                End user actions                               Third party and Server side actions
                      2400                                                                                    2402
              User activates                                                                   Party of authority activates
                18+ App in                                                                     18+ App in broadcast mode
               listen mode                                                                          and listen mode
                                 2318      2410                     2408
               18+ client
                prompts                18+                   18+
                user with             client                client                                        18+ App
               ID request           validates              receives                                      sends out
<removed-apn>
                   and               Public                 Public                                       Public key
               requester               key                   key
                 details                                                                       2420
                                                  2414                2418                                          2406
                                                           18+ App                     BIOCA
                             Yes User initiated           establishes                 returns
                Agree to           request to               secure                  Public key
                request?         confirm age is           connection                    and
                                    over 18                to BIOCA                 establishes
                No                                                                  PKI tunnel
                                                          18+ App            2422
                   End              18+ App               requests
                                  connects to              trusted
                                                         connection                                   2424
                     2416          the Public                                     BIOCA
                                    network               to BIOCA              validates                            No
                                                                                 the trust             Trusted?              End
                                                                               level of the
                         2430                                                    devices/
                 18+ App                                                           App                        Yes
                asks end                                                                                 BIOCA             2426
                 user for                                                                             establishes
                password                     2432                   2434               2436           trusted link           2428
                   and
                palmprint             18+ App                                      BIOCA
                                    attaches its           18+ App                validates                        No
                                     Public key             sends               the identity            Found?              End
                                      to data              data to               of the end
                                      payload               BIOCA                   user
                                                                                                             Yes
                         2442                                                                                              2438
                18+ App                         18+ Public
               sends end                           key                                                   BIOCA
               user Public                                                     End user               returns end            2440
               key to 18+                                                     Public key              user Public
               server for                                                                                 key
               age match                                                        18+ Server          2444
                                                                                  receives                          No
                                                                                 Public key            Found?               End
                                                                               and matches
                                                                              it in database                 Yes
                                                                                                                           2446
                                                                               Under 18        No
                                                                               response               Over 18?
                                                             2454                                                     2448
                                                   18+ App                                 2450       Yes
                                                    receives                                                        Over 18
                                                   response                                                        response
                                                                              Response
                                                                               package                       Persons name
                                                                                                              and relevant
                                          2456                                              2452                 details
                18+ App switches to broadcast                                              18+ App receives and
              mode and sends response encrypted                                              displays response              2458
                  with requesters Pubic key                                                      package
                                                          Figure 24

                                                               27/50
<removed-date>
                          (E.g. visual) capture device P100A
                                              P001                P002
                           Visual scene
                                                           Data
                            captured
                           Buffered/cached                        P110A
                         (encrypted real<U+2704>time)
<removed-apn>
                                                      P003                          (E.g. remote server) processing P300
                          Frame Comparison            P004                                       P333A
                               Module
                         (sensory adaption)                                               A
                                                                                                     P333B           P333C
                          P005
                                                                                                 B              C
                                Value/
                                                Yes
                               (Pattern)
                               Change?
                                                    P006            P120A
                               No
                                           Delete
                          P044
                                           P043                   P042
              Transmit
                                Unlock
                                                      Convey
                               C2 Module
                                                                               P444
                               P040                          P041
                                                                                     P019
                   Decrypt/                  Conveyed
                                                                            Buffer/cache
                   Signed?                   effect(s) n
                                                                                        P020
                                                              (ii) No                       (i) No
                                                                             Expired?
                                  P039                 P045                                                         P021
                                                                              Yes
                     Receive               Transmit                                                      Transmit
                                                                                          P046
                                                                              Delete
                                 Contributing device P200                   P222F                             Device P100B
                           G                                            H           F                E
                                  P222G               P222H                                                  P111E
                                                        Figure 25

                                                          28/50
<removed-date>
                                              (E.g. remote server) processing P300
              P333AA
                               Frame(s)              P007                                                   P130A
                 A
                         (Capture data info)
                                             P008
<removed-apn>
                                                                         Past Experience
                         Recognition Module
                                                                             Database
                                                                                        P010
                                                                                                       Store/
                                            P011                                                       update
                                                                  P012
                                             No
                                Value?                      Delete
                                                                                 No         P015
                               Yes
                                                                                 Value?
                                                                                                 Yes
                                                         P140A                                             X200
                             Converted into
                       Characteristic data info
                                                                                      Packager Module
                        e.g. expression strings
                               (+ metadata)
                                                             Public                                        P017
                                            P013                               P014          Key Generator
                                What? /          (A) P             Public
                               (Activity)                           &/or                                    P018i
                               Profiles?                           Private
                                                                                               Key encrypts
                                                                                               characteristic
                                                         Public &/or
                                                                                                 data info
                                                             Private
                                                                             P016              (+ metadata)
                                                                    Error
                                                                 Correction/                                P018ii
                                                                  Distortion
                                                                 Toleration                    Digitally Sign
                                                                   Module
                                            P333BB                                                           P333CC
                                     B                                                                 C
                                                   Figure 26

                                                           29/50
<removed-date>
                 G              P222HH                H       F                              E
                          P222GG                                        P222FF                      P111EE
                     Contributing device P200                                                     Device P100B
<removed-apn>
                                                                       P028
                                                           Receive                                         P022
              Convey/         P038                                                      Receive
                                                                       P029
                sign/
              encrypt/                                Buffer/cache
              transmit                                                                                     P023
                                         P030                        P032            Buffer/cache
                            Trusted           Yes         Key Query
                             sign?                         Module                                 P024
                                                                                        Trusted       No
                            No                                                           sign?
                                  No       Key
                                          Match?
                                                                                       Yes
                                                            P033
                                                Yes
                                       P031                         P034
                             Delete                                                               P026
                                                           Decrypt
                                                                                        Public/       No
                             No                                        P210             value?
                                        P036
                  Yes                                     Correlate/                   Yes
                            Value?                                                                        Delete
                                                           Process
                                                                                   Store/                   P025
                       Contribute: rightful claim                  P220         update/
                     (e.g. store expression strings)                               report
                                                                                                  P027
                                                                  Store Keys        Past Experience/
                                      P037i                            P037ii    Recognition Feedback
                                                                                         Module
                           Error Correction/
                                                            Key
                         Distortion Toleration
                                                          Generator
                                Module
                                                    Figure 27

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       30/50
Figure 28

                           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Expression string legend
 Figure 29
                                                      31/50
  Figure 30

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 31
                                       32/50
Figure 32

                                               33/50
<removed-date>
                                         Typical divisions of ChID
<removed-apn>
                                     Characteristic data information (ChDI)    X100
                                            (e.g. expression strings)
                                        of recognised (Activity) Profiles
                                                                                         X120
                                          X110
                           Private                                              Public
                               X140                                 X150
                  Entity                            Not Entity
                                                                 X170                    X125
                                X160             Not contributed                  Auto
              Contributed to
                                                  to Entity, only             Contributed
                  Entity
                                                     as tags                e.g. P111EE
                                           Figure 33

                                                      34/50
<removed-date>
                                                Packager Module X200                  X201
                                                           Receive raw ChDI
                                                  e.g. expression strings (+ metadata)
                                                                                      X202
                                                    Sort into Private and Public ChDI
                                                           X203                                               X204
<removed-apn>
                                               Private (Pr)                                     Public (Pu)
                                                                        X210
                                                           X205
                                      Metadata organising &
                                      unique code generating
                                                           X207
                                          Create individual
                                            Pr Packages
                                                                                                              X209
                                                                                                   P018i
                      e.s. A [md 1]                               md1                              md2
                                                  X211
                      e.s. B [md 1]                           e.s. A [md 1]                    e.s. C [md 2]
                      e.s. C [md 2]
                                                              e.s. B [md 1]                    e.s. D [md 2]
                      e.s. D [md 2]                 X212
                                                              e.s. n [md 1]
                      e.s. n [md 1]
                                                                  md1          X214          md2
                                                                                                       X217
              Legend                                          e.s. A [md 1]            e.s. C [md 2]
                                                                               X215                    X218
               e.s. = expression string                       e.s. B [md 1]            e.s. D [md 2]
               md = metadata                        X213                       X216
                                                              e.s. n [md 1]
               A, B, C, D & n = queue number
               1 & 2 = md sets                                An example package for Pr e.s. A [md 1]:
                                                              (1) e.s. A [md 1] (e.g. raw expression string)
              Generate unique e.s. code           X219        (2) txt file (e.g. device Read Me):
              e.s. C [md 2] X220                                  <U+2704> unique code for e.s. C [md 2]
                                                                  <U+2704> unique code for e.s. D [md 2]
                                                    X222
              unique code     X221                            (3) Capture devices Public Key
                                                              (4) reserved for P018i respective unique key
                                                                  from raw e.s. A [md 1]
                                                Figure 34

                                                              35/50
<removed-date>
                                    Receiving device dealing with a Private (Pr) Package
                                                                     Pr Package              Y100
                                                                     e.g. P222FF
                                                                                    Y110
                                                                 Digitally Signed
                                                                     Decision
<removed-apn>
                                                                 e.g. P030, P031                                       Y180
                            Locked A file           Y115                                                  Locked B file
                              e.g. P032                                                                    e.g. P032
                                                                                                                       Y185
                             Unlocked               Y120                                              Remain locked
                          e.g. P034, P210                                                               e.g. P033
                                                                                                                          Y190
                                   Y125                       Y130                       Y135
                                                                                                            Delete
                 (i) Message:                 (ii) Entitys                                                e.g. P031
                                                                        (iii) Public Key A
              e.g. Not Entitys               Pr ChDI
                               Y140                           Y145
                                          Contribute as Entity
                 Auto Reply
                                               e.g. P220
                             Y150
              Secure Connection
                  e.g. P038
                                                                                                     Y155
                                                                                          Issue tags
                                                                                       e.g. P039, P040,
                                                                                         P041, P019
                                                                                                     Y160
                                                                                        Tag Package
                                                                                     e.g. P045, P222HH
                Digitally Signed          Y165
                   e.g. P030
                                    Y170                                  Y175
              Decrypt with Private           Contribute to Associations
                Key B e.g. P034                      e.g. P220
                                                        Figure 35

                                                                                                       <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                                                           master expression string formation
          Txt file 1                              Txt file 2                              Txt file 3                              Txt file n
                            Z001                                      Z002                                   Z003                                   Z004
expression string 1                    expression string 1                      expression string 1                    expression string 1
expression string 2                    expression string 2                      expression string 2                                               Z040
expression string 3                                            Z020             expression string 3                    average expression string
expression string 4                    average expression string                                       Z030
                       Z010                                                     average expression string
average expression string
                              Z011                             Z022                                 Z033                                   Z044
                                                                                                                      Z100
                                                                                                                                                           36/50
                                                                        Master.txt
 Txt file1 average expression string, Txt file2 average expression string, Txt file3 average expression string, ... Txt filen average expression string
                                                                                             Z012
                                        <U+2704>
[B\F\000.00000La+000.00001Lo\Algo1 Sen1\ClassA.txt] average_expression_string,
                        Between square brackets is the expression strings code or contribution directory address, i.e. [code]
                                                                      Figure 36

                                                                                                      <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                         (e.g. a 1:1 & 1:n) txt file average expression string query/search for contribution is shown
                Txt file 1                             Txt file 2                               Txt file 3                             Txt file n
                                    Z101                                  Z102                                    Z103                                   Z104
      expression string 1                    expression string 1                      expression string 1                    expression string 1
      expression string 2                    expression string 2                      expression string 2                                              Z140
      expression string 3                                            Z120             expression string 3                    average expression string
      expression string 4                    average expression string                                       Z130
                             Z110                                                     average expression string
      average expression string
INCOMING
               Z210
      expression string search term                                                                                                                       37/50
                             Z111                               Z122                                 Z133                  Z200              Z144
                                                                             Master.txt
       Txt file1 average expression string, Txt file2 average expression string, Txt file3 average expression string, ... Txt filen average expression string
                                                                    Figure 37

                                                                                                      <removed-apn>                    <removed-date>
                               (e.g. a 1:n) master txt file expression string query/search for recognition is shown
INCOMING
                Z310
      expression string search term
              Z211                                                 Z222                                  Z233                                     Z244
                                                                             Master.txt                                      Z300
       Txt file1 average expression string, Txt file2 average expression string, Txt file3 average expression string, ... Txt filen average expression string
                           Z316
                                                                                Z315
            String expressions are                  An expression strings
                   analyzed                      measurement or expression
                                                  sequence aligns/matches
           e.g. Match Value (MV) %                       incomings                                  mean
                                                                                                                        x 100 = MV %        [Formula 1]
                                                                                                                                                           38/50
                                                                                                 scores Z score
            Expression MV %s are
           weighted for Recognition       Z317
                Value (RV) %
                       [(MV %) x (contribution quantity weight) x (time weight) x (location closeness weight)]
                                                                                                                   = an expressions RV %    [Formula 2]
                                                   Recognition Threshold %
                                                                          Figure 38

                                          39/50
<removed-date>
                                  A recognition decision process
                                      Layered Decision Tree
              Recognition
               Thresholds                                                        Recognition
              (Set Values)                                 Z400                    Values
                                               Does RV1
                  RT1                                                                  RV1
                                               Pass RT1?
                 Z401                                                                   Z402
<removed-apn>
                              No        Z403                       Yes
                                                                         Z404
                                                              Z405
                                              Adjust RT2
                                                           Z408
                   Z406                                                                 Z407
                                              Does RV2
                 RT2                                                                   RV2
                                              Pass RT2?
                                       Z409
                             No                                   Yes
                                                                        Z410
                                           Adjust RTn         Z411
                                                           Z414
                   Z412                                                                  Z413
                                              Does RVn
                 RTn                                                                   RVn
                                              Pass RTn?
                                       Z415                                     Z416
                             No                                   Yes
                                       Z417                                     Z418
                             Fail                                 Pass
                                     Figure 39

                                              40/50
<removed-date>                          eLicence: principal flowchart
                                                                                     Q050
              Register eLicence biometrics and/or other particulars, unless registered already
                                                                                     Q100
                                           Procure an eLicence
<removed-apn>
                                                                                    Q200
                    Optional: attest or use eLicence to order or procure (e.g. a device)
                                                                                      Q300
                   Optional: attest or use eLicence to convey particulars (e.g. to receive
                                       procurement; declare receipt)
                                                                                      Q400
               Attest or use eLicence for (e.g. robotic) device communication, command or
                                                   control
                                          Figure 41
                      How eLicence biometrics and particulars were registered
                                                                                    Q050A
                          User performs a biometric capture (e.g. palm vein scan)
                                                                                    Q050B
                Digitized pattern image converted by algorithms into data point templates
                                                                                    Q050C
                                   Templates compressed and encrypted
                                                                                    Q050D
                    Software database stores the registered files and other particulars
                                          Figure 42

                                         41/50
<removed-date>                     How to procure an eLicence                  Q110
                                  Procure eLicence software
                                                                             Q130
                             Establish connection or account log<U+2704>in
<removed-apn>
                                                                            Q140
                                    Download eLicence files
                                                                            Q150
                                      Install eLicence files
                                    Figure 43
                              How to log<U+2704>in to eLicence account             Q131
                               User conveyed log<U+2704>in instructions
                                                                             Q132
              User answers challenge<U+2704>response questions and/or verifies biometrics
                                                                            Q133
                              User authenticated (e.g. logged<U+2704>in)
                                     Figure 44

                                         42/50
<removed-date>            How eLicence files are smart device procured
               (AT LEAST ONE)                                (AT LEAST ONE)
                 BIOMETRIC                         R01
                                                              COMPUTING
              CAPTURE DEVICE                                     DEVICE
                    R100
<removed-apn>
                                                                   R80
                                   R02
                 (AT LEAST
                                                                            (AT LEAST ONE)
                    ONE)
                                                                             COMPUTING
                  SMART                                    R05                DEVICE
                    CHIP
                                    R04                                           R85
                    R150
              R03
                                                             Public Network
                                                                  R60B
               Private Network
                     R60A                 R06
                                                  R07i             R07ii
              R08
                                                (AT LEAST ONE)       (AT LEAST ONE)
                                                 COMPUTING            COMPUTING
                                                    DEVICE               DEVICE
                             R25
                                                     R90A                 R90B
                                    Figure 45

                                             43/50
<removed-date>
                         How eLicence files are auto<U+2704>deleted & reinstated
                                                                                       Q141
                  User dissociates from smart device (e.g. takes<U+2704>off smart wristband)
                                                                                       Q142
                                   Smart device recognises dissociation
                                                                                        Q143i
                    Smart device grants dissociation grace period, unless disturbed
<removed-apn>
                                                                                       Q143ii
                     Smart device randomly scrambles and/or deletes eLicence files
                                                                                       Q144
              Smart device cannot locally authenticate user, since no stored eLicence files
                                                                                       Q145
                           User reassociates with smart device (e.g. puts it on)
                                                                                       Q146
                 Smart device recognises association (e.g. biometrics or vitals detected)
                                                                                        Q147
               User directed to procure eLicence files (e.g. Q120; remote server download)
                                                                                       Q148
                        User logs<U+2704>in to eLicence account (e.g. Q130; Q131 to Q133)
                                                                                       Q149
                   Users eLicence files are downloaded and installed (e.g. Q140; Q150)
                                         Figure 46
                                 How to procure using an eLicence                    Q210
                        Browse device traders store (e.g. virtually or in<U+2704>person)
                                                                                      Q220
                            Select transaction item (e.g. device to purchase)
                                                                                      Q230
                          Complete customer particulars (e.g. delivery/receipt)
                                                                                     Q240
                          Attest or use eLicence before transaction completed
                                         Figure 47

                                          44/50
<removed-date>
                     How an eLicence transacts (e.g. with eCommerce)
                                                                               Q241
               User prompted to log<U+2704>in to their eLicence (e.g. eCommerce interface)
                                                                                Q242
                            User causes eLicence software to operate
                                                                                Q243
<removed-apn>
                                         Q243A to Q243F
                                                                                Q244
              eLicence software: (i) automatically completes transaction step; or (ii)
                conveys notification requiring user to designate step completion;
                                e.g. Q244A to Q244C, or U1 to U5
                                     Figure 48
                           How to log<U+2704>on to the eLicence software
                                                                                Q243A
                                     User logs<U+2704>in to eLicence
                                                                                Q243B
                                              Q131
                                                                                Q243C
                                              Q132
                                                                                Q243D
              Future files formed from captures are compared against registered files
                                                                                Q243E
                Correlation within acceptable threshold values return a pass result
                                                                                Q243F
                                              Q133
                                     Figure 49

                                           45/50
<removed-date>             How an eLicence integrates with eCommerce
                                                                               Q244A
                    eLicence software communicates with transaction software
                                                                                Q244B
               Following user authentication (i.e. Q133) a unique code is generated
<removed-apn>
                                                                                Q244C
                    Code received by other partys eLicence<U+2704>operating device
                                                                               Q244D
              Code<U+2704>derived data information correlated against user/order particulars
                                                                              Q244E
                   Optionally: notification communicated to a computing device
                                      Figure 50
                                  How an eLicence transmits
                                                                                U1
               Following user authentication (i.e. Q133) a unique code is generated
                                                                               U2
                                        Code is transmitted
                                                                               U3
                        Other devices eLicence software receives the code
                                                                               U4
                                Code is decrypted and interpreted
                                                                               U5
                            A results decision transpires (e.g. pass/fail)
                                      Figure 51

                                           46/50
<removed-date>
                          How to use an eLicence to declare receipt                   Q310
                                 Receive first delivery notification
                                                                                   Q320
               Optional: attest or use eLicence to confirm first delivery notification
                                                                                      Q330
<removed-apn>
                           Optional: receive second delivery notification
                                                                                 Q340
              Optional: attest or use eLicence to confirm second delivery notification
                                                                                 Q350
                                         Product dispatched
                                                                               Q360
                Attest or use eLicence to complete delivery and/or declare receipt
                                       Figure 52
                               How to verify eLicence particulars                     T101
                    Verifier initiates the verification using their eLicence device
                                                                                      T102
                    Verifier defines the requested particulars of another party
                                                                                      T103
                   Verifier causes their eLicence device to transmit the request
                                                                                      T104
                         Customers eLicence device receives the request
                                                                                      T105
                         Customers eLicence device conveys the request
                                                                              T106
              Customer evaluates request, may accept or deny in whole or in part the
                                       verifiers request
                                                                              T107
                                              Q243
                                                                                      T108
                                        Q244 (i.e. U1 to U5)
                                                                                  T103
              Verifiers eLicence device notifies of customers transmitted particulars
                                       Figure 53

                                             47/50
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                        How a robotic device verifies eLicence particulars
                                                                                      T201
                 Verifier (e.g. robot) initiates the verification using eLicence software
                                                                                     T202
              Verifier defines the requested particulars of the other party (e.g. customer)
                                                                                     T203
                       Verifier causes its eLicence device to transmit the request
                                                                                     T204
                           Customers eLicence device receives the request
                                                                                     T205
                           Customers eLicence device conveys the request
                                                                                      T206
               Customer evaluates request, may accept or deny in whole or in part the
                                            verifiers request
                                                                                      T207
                                                   Q243
                                                                                      T208
                                           Q244 (i.e. U1 to U5)
                                                                                      T209
               Verifiers eLicence module notifies of customers transmitted particulars.
                 A pass result causes the robot to effect its assignment (e.g. deliver).
                                        Figure 54

                                         48/50
<removed-date>
                           Physical and virtual eLicence verification
<removed-apn>
                                                                        (AT LEAST ONE)
                                                                         COMPUTING
                                                       S05
                                                                            DEVICE
                                                                              R80
                                     (AT LEAST ONE)
                                    COMMUNICATION
                                       NETWORK
                                     (OR INTERNET)
                                          S60B
                                                                        S04
              S03
                     S01           (AT LEAST ONE)                 S02
                                  COMMUNICATION
                                                                                  S25V
              S25C                   NETWORK
                                        S60A
                                     Figure 55

                                         49/50
<removed-date>
                      How to directly control a robot using eLicence           Q410
                 Log<U+2704>in to eLicence software or account (e.g. on smart device)
                                                                              Q420
<removed-apn>
                      Transmit eLicence to a device (e.g. robot or vehicle)
                                                                            Q430
              Attest or use eLicence for device communication, command or control
                                    Figure 56
                     How to indirectly control a robot using eLicence         Q440
                                             Q410
                                                                              Q450
                    Select device to command, control or communicate with
                                                                              Q460
                           Communicate, command or control device
                                  Figure 57

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 58
                                       50/50

