    ABSTRACT (figures 10 & 11)
    A post 100 has an elongate tubular hollow member with an open upper end 111 and an open
    lower end 112. The upper portion 111 predominately extends above the ground and the
 5  lower ground engaging portion 112 is fully inserted into the ground. The lower ground
    engaging portion 113 has a protruding region 113 immediately adjacent to where the upper
    portion 111 and lower ground engaging portion 112 join together. The diameter of the
   protruding region 113 is greater than the diameter of the upper portion 112 such that the
   protruding region defines a lipped section that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the
10 post 100. The lipped section 113 prevents the post 100 from moving vertically when the
   ground engaging portion 112 of the post 100 is fully inserted into and enclosed within the
   ground. The post has wire engaging slots 121, 123 designed to accomadate wire clips 30
   therein in order to assist in holding a fence wire to the post 100. The post clip 30 has a body
   portion with a base adapted to contour and abut with a post 100. The body portion includes
15 at least one wire engaging portion for capturing, retaimng and supporting a part of a fence
   wire therein. The body portion has extending outwardly and downwardly from the base an
   downwardly protruding portion 39 that is dimensioned and configured to fit within an slot
   121, 123 in the post and to retain the post clip 30 to the post 100.

       N
         'I
            C
   'A.
C
 0
a)
a)
U,
              i

                                                            1
                                               Post and Post Clip
           The invention relates to a post and post clip, typically a fence post and post clip for use as
          part of a vine trellis system.
    5     Background of Invention
           Post and post clips for attaching and holding wire to the posts are varied and widely used in
          all areas of agriculture and horticulture sectors either to fence in livestock or as trellises for
         holding vines.
  10     However a post once inserted into the ground may pull out of or push into the ground when
         tensioned from above, below or combination of both. Some posts are treated with poisonous
         substances which are difficult to dispose of and may leach into the host materials. Posts may
         break when machinery makes accidental contact due to flexibility and strength issues of
         alternative wooden posts.
  15
        In some applications, clips are attached to the post to assist in holding wire or the like,
        however the attaching of clips usually involves staples, nails or screws which can be time
        consuming and can be executed incorrectly. Replacing and repairing clips is also a time
        consuming process.
 20
       It is known for the insertion of a second device or post adjacent to the post base or a welded
       section on the base of the post to assit in restraming angular or vertical movement of the post
       when in the ground. This can be doen at time of being placed in the ground or done as
       retrofit once vertical movement of the post occurs. However this an expensive and time
25     consuming exercise.
      Known posts can also bend as a result of the tension being applied and or can snap and
      break, thus placing the whole integrity of the fence or trellis at risk.
30    Current posts can be difficult to place in the ground, especially when it comes to driving
      posts into the ground.

                                                          2
         Object of the Invention
         It is an object of the invention to provide a post and post clip that ameliorates some of the
         disadvantages and limitations of the known art or at least provide the public with a useful
         choice.
   5
        Summary of Invention
        In a first aspect the invention resides in a post typically a post for use as part of a vine trellis
        system, the post includes an elongate tubular hollow member having an open upper end and
        an open lower end, the elongate member has an upper portion and a lower ground engaging
 10    portion joined to one another, wherein the upper portion is adapted to predominately extend
       above the ground and the lower ground engaging portion is adapted to be fully inserted into
       the ground, the lower ground engaging portion has an protruding region immediately
       adjacent to where the upper portion and lower ground engaging portion join together, the
       diameter of the protruding region is greater than the diameter of the upper portion such that
 15   the protruding region defines a lipped section that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of
      the post, the lipped section is adapted to prevent the post from moving vertically when the
      lower ground engaging portion of the post is fully inserted into and enclosed within the
      ground.
20    Preferably, the diameter of the upper portion is greater than the diameter of the distal end of
      the ground engaging portion.
      Preferably, the lipped section forms an edge between the upper portion and lower ground
      engaging portion.
25
     Preferably, the edge slopes from the ground engaging portion toward the upper portion.
     Preferably, the diameter of the lipped section is greater than the diameter of the upper region
     to the extent to prevent the post from moving vertically once the post is inserted in to the
30   ground.
     Preferably, the upper and lower ground engaging portion are integrally joined.

                                                         3
         Preferably, the lipped section is formed by swaging the lower ground engaging portion until
         the diameter of the lower ground engaging portion in the area immediately adjacent the
         upper portion is greater than the diameter of the upper portion.
   5    Preferably, the post is made from a suitable rigid and durable material for supporting wire
        and/or vine trellis.
        Preferably, the post is made steel, typically galvanised steel.
 10     Preferably, the post can be made from metal, plastic, wood, fibre glass, or any suitable
        combination or composite thereof.
       Preferably, the post has a plurality of spaced apart apertures for supporting elongate strand
       members such as wire retaining clips or wires, cables or the like.
 15
       Preferably, the elongate strand member supporting apertures extend and spaced along the
       length of the upper portion.
      Preferably, the apertures extend and are equally spaced circumferentially around the upper
20    portion.
      Preferably the lower ground engaging portion has a least one aperture such that the elongate
      strand member supporting aperture can accommodate attachment means for attaching to a
      footer.
25
     Preferably, the apertures are elongate.
     Preferably, the apertures are slots.
30   In a second aspect the invention resides in a post clip for retaining an elongate strand
     member to a post, the post clip has a body portion with a base adapted to contour and abut
     with a post, the body portion includes at least one engaging means for capturing, retaking
     and supporting a part of the elongate strand member therein, the body portion has extending

                                                          4
          outwardly and downwardly from the base an aperture engaging means such that aperture
          engaging means is dimensioned and configured to fit within an aperture in the post and to
          retain the post clip to the post.
    5    Preferably, the elongate stand member is wire or cable or the like.
         Preferably, the post clip has at least two engaging means for engaging with elongate strand
         members.
  10     Preferably, the engaging means are equally spaced apart.
        Preferably, the base has an outwardly facing portion that is contoured such that when the
        post clip is attached to a post the base contours and abuts evenly against the post.
  15    Preferably, the aperture engaging means has a shaft attached at one end to the base and has a
        locking member attached at its other end such that the locking member is spaced a distance
       from the the base.
       Preferably, the shaft has a diameter slightly less than the diameter of the aperture in the post.
 20
       Preferably the shaft has a length just slightly greater than the thickness of the hollow post so
       as to allow the clip to be rotated and to abut and snugly attach to the post when the clip is in
       a post aperture.
25    Preferably, the locking member has a portion with a width greater than the diameter of the
      posts aperture, the locking member has another portion having a width that is less than the
      diameter of the post aperture such that when in one orientation the locking member is able to
      be inserted into the aperture and in another orientation where the clip rotated 900 the locking
      member is not able to be removed from the post aperture, thus locking the clip to the post.
30
      Preferably, the portion of the locking member having the width of least extent extends in a
      direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the clip.

                                                           5
           Preferably, the portion of the locking member having the width of greatest extent extends in
           a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the clip.
          Preferably, the locking member is elongate where the longitudinal axis of the locking
     5    member is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the body of the clip.
          Preferably the elongation of the locking member is dimensioned and configured to fit within
          a corresponding elongated aperture in the post such that locking member of the clip is
         adapted to be inserted into the aperture and then rotated 900 in order to lock and retain the
  10     clip to the post.
         Preferably, the clip is made from any lightweight, durable material.
         Preferably, the clip is made from plastic, typically a polyamide resin (e.g. Nylonm 66) with
  15     a carbon black stabiliser.
        Preferably, the clip is injection moulded.
        In a third aspect the invention resides in a post as defined in the first aspect having the post
 20     clips as defined in the second aspect.
       In other aspects herein described
       Brief Description
25     The invention will now be described, by way of example only, by reference to the
       accompanying drawings:
       Figure 1 is a side view of a post in accordance with a first embodiment ofthe invention.
30     Figure 2 is a perspective view of the post shown in figure 1.
       Figure 3 is a front end view of the post as shown in figure 1.

                                                          6
          Figure 4 is a perspective view of a post in accordance with a second embodiment of the
          invention.
          Figure 5 is a side view of a post in accordance with a preferred third embodiment of the
    5     invention.
         Figure 6 is a front end view perspective view of the post shown in figure 5.
         Figure 7 is perspective view of a post shown in figure 5 with addition of post engaging slots
  10     thereini.
         Figure 8 is a side view of a post clip in accordance to fourth embodiment of the invention.
        Figure 9 is an end view of the post clip as shown in figure 8.
  15
        Figure 10 is a cut-away end view of a post shown in figure 7 with a post clip as shown in
        figure 8.
        Figure 11 is a perspective view of the post with a post clip as shown in figure 10
 20
        Description of Drawings
        The following description will describe the invention in relation to preferred embodiments of
       the invention, namely a post and post clip. The invention is in no way limited to these
       preferred embodiments as they are purely to exemplify the invention only and that possible
25     variations and modifications would be readily apparent without departing from the scope of
       the invention.
      Figures 1 to 3 show one embodiment of the invention of a post 10 consisting of a hollow
      elongate tubular pipe. The post 10 has an open upper end that can be closed with a cap. The
30    post has a closed or partially closed lower end 19. The post.has an upper portion 11 and a
      lower ground engaging portion 12 joined to one another. The upper portion 11 is adapted to
      predominately extend above the ground and the lower ground engaging portion 12 is adapted
      to be fully inserted into the ground. The lower ground engaging portion 12 has an protruding

                                                           7
          region 13 immediately adjacent to where the upper portion 11 and lower ground engaging
          portion 12 join together. The diameter Y of the protruding region 13 is greater than the
          diameter Z of the upper portion 11 such that the protruding region 13 defines a lipped section
          13 that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the post 10. The lipped section 13 is
    5     adapted to prevent the ?st from moving vertically when the lower ground engaging portion
          12 of the post 10 is fully inserted into and enclosed within the ground. The ground engaging
         portion is tapered forming the closed or partially closed end 19 of the post-10.
         The diameter Z of the upper portion 11 is greater than the diameter X of the distal end 19 of
         the ground engaging portion 12. The lower ground engaging portion 12 is cnmped to form a
  10     tapering end and the closing or partial closing 18 of the lower end 19 of the post 10. The
         lower ground engaging portion can be crimped to form a tapering end having a two, three,
        four or more sided geometrical shape when viewed in cross-section such as a cross-shape or
        star shape when viewed in cross-section having four tapering edges 14, 15, 16, 17..
 15     The diameter Z of the upper portion 11 is greater than the diameter X of the distal end 19 of
        the ground engaging portion 12.
        The lipped section 13 forms an edge between the upper portion 11 and lower ground
        engaging portion 12 where the edge slopes from the ground engaging portion 11 toward the
 20    upper portion 12. The diameter Y of the lipped section 13 is greater than the diameter Z of
       the upper region 11 to the extent to prevent the post 10 from moving vertically once the post
       is inserted in to the ground. The lipped section 13 is formed by swaging the lower ground
       engaging portion 12 until the diameter Y of the lower ground engaging portion 12 in the area
       immediately adjacent the upper portion 11 is greater than the diameter Z ofthe upper portion
25     12.
      The upper and lower ground engaging portions 11, 12 are integrally joined. The post 10 is
      made from a suitable rigid and durable material for supporting wire and/or vine trellis.
      Preferably, the post 10 is made steel, typically galvanised steel, however it is envisaged that
30    the post 10 can made from metal, plastic, wood, fibre glass, or any suitable combination or
      composite thereof.

                                                          8
          Turning to figure 4 the post 10 can have a plurality of spaced apart apertures 20, 21, 22, 22'
          for supporting elongate strand members such as wire retaining clips or wires, cables or the
          like. The apertures 20, 21, 22, 22', 23 can extend and be spaced along the length of the post
          10. Also the apertures can extend and be equally spaced circumferentially around the post
    5     10.
         The lower ground engaging portion has a least one aperture 22, 22 ' such that this aperture
         can accommodate attachment means for attaching to a footer to the post 10. Preferably, the
         apertures are elongate and/or slot like.
  10
         PREFERED EMBODIMENT
        Figures 5 to 7 show third and most preferred embodiment of the invention of a post 100
        consisting of a hollow elongate tubular pipe. The post 100 has an open upper end. The post
  15    has an open lower end 119. The post 100 has an upper portion 111 and a lower ground
        engaging portion 112 joined to one another. The upper portion 111 is adapted to
        predomnately extend abdve the ground and the lower ground engaging portion 112 is
        adapted to be fully inserted into the ground. The lower ground engaging portion 112 has an
       protruding region 113 immediately adjacent to where the upper portion 111 and lower
 20    ground engaging portion 112 join together. The diameter Y of the protruding region 113 is
       greater than the diameter Z of the upper portion 111 such that the protruding region 113
       defines a lipped section that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the post 100. The
       lipped section 113 is adapted to prevent the post from moving vertically when the lower
       ground engaging portion 112 of the post 100 is fully inserted into and enclosed within the
25     ground.
       The diameter Z of the upper portion 111 is greater than or equal to the diameter X of the
       distal end 19 of the ground engaging portion 112, preferably equal to.
30    The lipped section 113 forms an edge between the upper portion 111 and lower ground
      engaging portion 112 where the edge slopes from the ground engaging portion 111 toward
      the upper portion 112. The diameter Y of the lipped section 113 is greater than the diameter
      Z of the upper region 111 to the extent to prevent the post 100 from moving vertically once

                                                          9
          the post is inserted in to the ground. The lipped section 113 can be formed by swaging the
          lower ground engaging portion 112 until the diameter Y of the lower ground engaging
          portion 112 in the area immediately adjacent the upper portion 111 is greater than the
          diameter Z of the upper portion 111.
    5
         The upper and lower ground engaging portions 111, 112 are integrally joined. The post 100
         is made from a suitable rigid and durable material for supporting wire and/or vine trellis.
         Preferably, the post 100 is made steel, typically galvanised steel, however it is envisaged that
         the post 100 can made from metal, plastic, wood, fibre glass, or any suitable combination or
  10     composite thereof.
        Tuming to figure 7 the post 100 can have a plurality of spaced apart apertures 121, 122,
         123, 124 for supporting elongate strand members such as wire retaining clips or wires, cables
        or the like. The apertures 121, 122, 123, 124 can extend and be spaced along the length of
  15    the post 100. Also the apertures can extend and be equally spaced circumferentially around
        the post 100. Preferably, the apertures 121, 122, 123, 124 are elongate and/or slot like
       The lower ground engaging portion 112 has a least one aperture 123, 124 such that this
       aperture can accommodate attachment means for attaching to a footer to the post 100..
 20
       Turning to figures 8 to 11 which pertain to the the post clip 30. The post clip 30 is adapted
       for retaining an elongate strand member such as a wire to a post 10. The post clip 30 has a
      body portion 31 with a base 36. The base is adapted to contour and abut with an outside
      surface of a post 10. The body portion 31 includes at least one engaging means 32, 33 for
25    capturing, retaining and supporting a part of the elongate strand member in an opening 34,
      25 therein. The body portion 31 has extending outwardly and downwardly from the base 36
      an aperture engaging means 38, 39 such that aperture engaging means 38,39 is dimensioned
      and configured to fit within an aperture 21 in the post 10 and to retain the post clip 30 to the
      post 10.
30
      Preferably, the post clip has at least two engaging means 32 & 33 for engaging with elongate
      strand members where the engaging means 32, 33 are equally spaced apart.

                                                         10
          The base 36 has an outwardly facing portion 37 that is contoured such that when the post clip
          30 is attached to a post the base 36 contours and abuts evenly against the post.
         The aperture engaging means 38, 39 has a shaft 38 attached at one end to the base 36 and has
    5    a locking member 39 attached at its other end such that the locking member 39 is spaced a
         distance from the base 36. The shaft has a diameter slightly less than the diameter of the
         apertures'121, 123 of the post 100. The shaft 38 also has a lengthjust slightly greater than
         the thickness of the hollow post 100 so as to allow the clip 30 to be rotated and to abut and
         snugly attach to the post 10 when the clip 30 is in a post aperture ( see figs 11 & 12).
  10
         The locking member 39 has a portion with a width wg greater than the diameter of the posts
        aperture. The locking member 39 has another portion having a width wl that is less than the
        diameter of the post aperture. The locking member 39 when in one orientation is able to be
        inserted into the aperture and in another orientation where the clip 30 rotated 900 the locking
  15    member 39 is not able to be removed from the post aperture, thus locking the clip 30 to the
       post 100. The portion of the locking member 39 having the width wg of least extent extends
       in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the clip 30 and the portion of the locking
       member 39 having the width wl of greatest extent extends in a direction perpendicular to the
       longitudinal axis of the clip 30. Preferably, the locking member 39 is elongate where the
 20    longitudinal axis of the locking member 39 is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the
      body 31 of the clip 30. The elongation of the locking member is dimensioned and
      configured to fit within a corresponding elongated aperture in the post 100 such that locking
      member 39 of the clip 30 is able to be inserted into the aperture and then rotated 900 in order
      to lock and retain the clip to the post 100.
25
      The clip 30 is made from any lightweight, durable material, preferably, the clip is made from
      plastic, typically a polyamide resin (e.g. NylonTM 66) with a carbon black stabiliser. The clip
      can be injection moulded.
30    Advantages
           a) Provides resistance against vertical movement of a post
           b) No post treatment is required
           c) Patterned holes allow for the insertion of a modular clipping system at any time

                                                     11
         d) The steel post is less likely to be broken in it service life less breakage and less time
             and capital spent on repair/replacement
        e) The modular clip system is faster to apply and user friendly
        f) No nails or fasteners to contaminate the product if used in a harvesting situation
 5
    Variations
    Throughout the description of this specification, the word "comprise" and variations of that
    word such as "comprising" and "comprises", are not intended to exclude other
                                                                                             additives,
   components, integers or steps.
10
   It will of course be realised that while the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative
   example of this invention, all such and other modifications and variations thereto as would
   be apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope and ambit
   of this invention as is herein defined in the appended claims.
15

                                                     12
   What We Claim is:
   Claim 1:         A post having an elongate tubular hollow member with an open upper end and
   an open lower end, the elongate member has an upper portion and a lower ground engaging
 5 portion joined to one another, wherein the upper portion is adapted to predominately extend
   above the ground and the lower ground engaging portion is adapted to be fully inserted into the
   ground, the lower ground engaging portion has a protruding region immediately adjacent to
   where the upper portion and lower ground engaging portion join together, the diameter of the
   protruding region is greater than the diameter of the upper portion such that the protruding
10 region defines a lipped section that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the post, the
   lipped section is adapted to prevent the post from moving vertically when the ground engaging
   portion of the post is fully inserted into and enclosed within the ground.
   Claim 2:         The post as claimed in claim 1, wherein the diameter of the upper portion is
15 greater than the diameter of the distal end of the ground engaging portion.
   Claim 3:         The post as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the lipped section forms an edge
   between the upper portion and lower ground engaging portion.
20 Claim 4:         The post as claimed in claim 3, wherein the edge slopes from the ground
   engaging portion toward the upper portion.
   Claim 5:         The post as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, wherein the diameter of
   the lipped section is greater than the diameter of the upper region to the extent to prevent the
25 post from moving vertically once the post is inserted in to the ground.
   Claim 6:         The post as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the upper and
   lower ground engaging portions are integrally joined.
30 Claim 7:         The post as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lipped
   section is formed by swaging the lower ground engaging portion until the diameter of the lower
   ground engaging portion in the area immediately adjacent the upper portion is greater than the
   diameter of the upper portion.

                                                    13
   Claim 8:         The post as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the post is
   made from a suitable rigid and durable material for supporting wire and/or vine trellis.
   Claim 9:         The post as claimed in claim 8, wherein the post is made from steel, typically
 5 galvanised steel.
   Claim 10:        The post as claimed in claim 9, wherein the post is made from metal, plastic,
   wood, fibre glass, or any combination or composite thereof.
10 Claim 11:        The post as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the post has a
   plurality of spaced apart apertures for supporting elongate strand members such as wire
   retaining clips or wires or cables.
   Claim 12:        The post as claimed in claim 11, wherein the elongate strand member
15 supporting apertures extend and are spaced along the length of the upper portion.
   Claim 13:        The post as claimed in claim 12, wherein the apertures extend and are equally
   spaced circumferentially around the upper portion.
20 Claim 14:        The post as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lower
   ground engaging portion has at least one aperture such that the elongate strand member
   supporting aperture can accommodate attachment means for attaching to a footer.
   Claim 15:        The post as claimed in claim 14, wherein the apertures in the lower portion are
25 elongate.
   Claim 16:        The post as claimed in claim 15, wherein the apertures are slots.
30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
