                                           ABSTRACT
        Provided herein are controlled evacuation devices, ostomy devices, methods for the
manufacture of such devices and the use of such devices. An ostomy pouch comprising an
adhesive collar to secure the pouch around a stoma is provided herein. The adhesive is exposed
to an inside of the pouch for fitting around the stoma. The pouch comprises a release coated
surface to allow manipulation of the adhesive through the pouch, and to prevent blocking of the
pouch during storage or use.

                     ONE PIECE OSTOMY POUCH ENHANCEMENTS
                                      CROSS-REFERENCES
[0001]    The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
No. 2013347992, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
[0002] This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/728,581
filed on November 20, 2012, entitled "One Piece Ostomy Pouch Enhancements," which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Numerous medical conditions may require ostomy surgery resulting in the creation of a
fecal or urinary stoma and the patient will eliminate waste into a container attached to their
abdomen. This container is typically a bag or pouch that is attached to the body around the
stoma by a wafer of bioadhesive called a skin barrier for its ability to protect the peristomal skin
from stomal effluent. It is desirable to improve on the design of ostomy devices and pouches.
[0004] A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art, is not
to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that the information
it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the
claims.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005] Provided herein are ostomy devices, methods for the manufacture of such devices and
the use of such devices.
[0006] In one aspect, the present invention provides an ostomy pouch comprising an adhesive
collar to secure the pouch around a stoma, wherein the adhesive is exposed to an inside of the
pouch for fitting around the stoma, and wherein the pouch comprises a release coated surface to
allow manipulation of the adhesive through the pouch, and to prevent blocking of the pouch
during storage or use.
[0007] In another aspect, the present invention provides an ostomy pouch comprising an
adhesive collar that is 'heart shaped' to increase adhered area in a 3 and 9 o'clock position, and
reduced adhered area at a top section.
[0008] In yet another aspect, the present invention provides an ostomy pouch comprising an
adhesive collar that is 'heart shaped' to increase adhered area between 3 and 9 o'clock positions,
including a 6 o'clock position, and reduced adhered area at a top section.
[0009] In still another aspect, the present invention provides an ostomy pouch comprising a
stoma viewing mechanism including a partially or totally opaque sheet of material on a front
panel that has more than about 50% of its perimeter detached from the pouch.

[0010] In some embodiments, the ostomy pouch is provided wherein the partially or totally
opaque sheet of material that has more than about 65% of its perimeter detached from the pouch.
[0011] In some embodiments provided herein, an ostomy pouch may be partially or totally
opaque sheet of material that has more than about 80% of its perimeter detached from the pouch.
[0012] In yet other embodiments, an ostomy pouch is provided wherein the partially or totally
opaque sheet of material reveals more than 60% of its initially covered pouch area when
manually manipulated to a stoma viewing position by 2 or fewer digits, for example a finger and
thumb.
[0013] In still other embodiments, an ostomy pouch is provided wherein the partially or totally
opaque sheet of material that reveals more than 70% of its initially covered pouch area when
manually manipulated to a stoma viewing position by 2 or fewer digits, for example a finger and
thumb.
[0014] In one embodiment, an ostomy pouch is provided wherein the stoma viewing
mechanism comprising a partially or totally opaque sheet of material that reveals more than 75%
of its initially covered pouch area when manually manipulated to a stoma viewing position by 2
or fewer digits, for example a finger and thumb.
[0015] In another aspect, the present invention provides an ostomy pouch having a stoma
viewing mechanism which can also conceal and/or hide a stoma and the pouch contents as
needed.
[0016] In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a stoma viewing mechanism
comprising a flap that is held closed by adhering to an underlying pouch via a pressure sensitive
adhesive, Velcro, hook and loop, or a sleeve mechanism.
[0017] In still another aspect, the present invention provides a stoma viewing mechanism
comprising a flap that is held closed by the flap that includes partially or is entirely comprised of
either the hook or the loop portion of a hook and loop or hook and hook fastening system, and a
pouch film or comfort panel itself comprises the other half of the closure system, i.e. either the
opposing hook or loop, or where the pouch film or comfort panel includes partially or is entirely
comprised of either the hook or the loop portion of a hook and loop or hook and hook fastening
system, and the flap itself comprises the other half of the closure system, i.e. either the opposing
hook or loop.
[0018] A controlled evacuation appliance is also described herein, wherein the controlled
evacuation application provides, alternatively or additionally,
                      a. an aperture that surrounds the stoma;
                      b. attaches to the skin surrounding the stoma by means of an
                          adhesive coupling;

                       c. incorporates a pouch for collecting effluent, whereby the pouch is
                           made of thin, flexible plastic, is non-elastic, is folded into a small
                           volume on the device, and can be deployed for collection of waste
                           at the discretion of the wearer;
                       d. utilizes stool trapped within the internal volume of the device as a
                           sealing means to resist outflow of additional effluent from the
                           stoma;
                       e. incorporates a cover to contain the pouch and protect the
                           device, wherein the cover is made from a flexible, non-elastic
                           material; and/or
                       f. incorporates a vent path for flatus that is released from the stoma.
[0019] In some embodiments, the appliances provided herein comprise a pouch, whereby the
pouch is folded longitudinally, and then rolled into a compressed format. In some embodiments,
the pouch is folded longitudinally, and then folded in layers against the outer surface of the
device. In other embodiments, the pouch is folded longitudinally, and then folded successively
latitudinally to its final compressed shape. In yet other embodiments, the pouch is folded
longitudinally, and then folded successively diagonally to its final compressed shape. In some
embodiments, the capacity of the pouch is between 100ml and 750ml.
[0020] In still other embodiments, a cover is included in the controlled evacuation appliances
provided herein whereby the cover is made from a plastic film. In some embodiments, the cover
is made from a textile. In still other embodiments, the cover at least partially covers and restrains
the stored pouch. In yet other embodiments, the cover is attached at two or more points to the
attachment means.
[0021] In some embodiments, a vent path is provided in the controlled evacuation appliances
provided herein, wherein the vent path is protected by a porous element. In some embodiments,
the vent path is defined by a film baffle that directs gas flow.
[0022] In other embodiments, the controlled evacuation appliances provided herein incorporate
an inflatable seal that contacts the stoma.
[0023] A controlled evacuation appliance is also described herein, wherein the controlled
evacuation application provides, alternatively or additionally,
                       a. incorporates an aperture that surrounds the stoma;
                       b. removably attaches to a skin barrier ostomy wafer by means of a
                       coupling
                       c. incorporates a pouch for collecting effluent, whereby the pouch is
                       made of flexible plastic, is non-elastic, is folded into a small volume on
                                                   -3-

                      the device, and/or can be deployed for collection of waste at the
                      discretion of the wearer;
                     d. utilizes stool trapped within the internal volume of the device as a
                         sealing means to resist outflow of additional effluent from the stoma;
                     e. incorporates a cover to contain the pouch and protect the device,
                         wherein the cover is made from a flexible, non-elastic material;
                         and/or
                     f.  incorporates a vent path for flatus that is released from the stoma.
[0024] In some embodiments, the controlled evacuation appliances incorporate an inflatable
seal that contacts the stoma.
                              INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[0025] All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or
patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026] The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended
claims. A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention will be
obtained by reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative
embodiments, in which the principles of the invention are utilized, and the accompanying
drawings of which:
[0027] FIGURE 1: a. illustrates a straight cut through pouch front panel for stoma viewing; b.
illustrates overlapping front panels for stoma viewing; c. illustrates curved cut through pouch
front panel for stoma viewing.
[0028] FIGURE 2: illustrates an adhesive collar with segmented release liner as one
embodiment as disclosed herein.
[0029] FIGURE 3: illustrates a "heart-shaped" adhesive collar as another embodiment as
disclosed herein, as compared to a circular adhesive collar.
[0030] FIGURE 4: illustrates a "heart-shaped" adhesive collar and segmented release liner as
yet another embodiment as disclosed herein.
[0031] FIGURE 5: illustrates flap in front panel for stoma viewing as an additional
embodiment as disclosed herein.
[0032] FIGURE 6: panels a-d illustrate a partly detachable flap for viewing a stoma.
[0033] FIGURE 7: illustrates an inflatable seal incorporated in or into the outer wall of the
pouch (1).
[0034] FIGURE 8: illustrates an outer panel (2) enclosing the inflatable seal (6).
                                                 -4-

[0035] FIGURE 9: illustrates a coupling member that may be employed with the methods and
devices disclosed herein comprising at least one contiguous adhesive element.
[0036] FIGURE 10: illustrates the use of a layer of open cell foam (7) to protect an ostomy
device including a filter and vent.
[0037] FIGURE 11: illustrates an alternative embodiment of a vent (4) and filter (5) that
could be located in the head space of the pouch or in the pouch itself.
[0038] FIGURE 12: illustrates an alternative embodiment of a vent (4) and filter (5) that
could be located in the head space of the pouch or in the pouch itself.
[0039] FIGURE 13: illustrates folding of the pouch in alternate layers across the outer face of
the device.
[0040] FIGURE 14: illustrates alternative folding arrangements may be employed, including
but not be limited to, creating longitudinal folds (9) in the pouch, followed by latitudinal folds
(10) or diagonal folds (11).
[0041] FIGURE 15: illustrates an embodiment in the disclosure incorporating longitudinal
pleats (12) in the outer pouch film to provide a flow path, when folded, for gas out of the device.
[0042] FIGURE 16: illustrates features (13) formed in at least one element disclosed herein
covering the filter to provide a flow path out of the filter.
[0043] FIGURE 17: illustrates the use of at least one additional element to act as a spacer
between the face of the device and the folded pouch to provide a flow path.
[0044] FIGURE 18: illustrates alternative methods of altering folding the pouch to leave the
vent path at least partially unobstructed.
[0045] FIGURE 19: illustrates the incorporation of a film element (15) to cover the ostomy
devices disclosed herein.
[0046] FIGURE 20: illustrates pulling a film out from a cover of the ostomy devices disclosed
herein, by means of a protruding tab (16) or other means of engaging the pouch, which may
allow the pouch to be unfolded and fill with stool as the seal is pulled away from the stoma.
[0047] FIGURE 21: illustrates the insertion of a finger under a cover of the ostomy devices
disclosed herein and lifting, wherein the cover could be intentionally torn to release the folded
pouch.
[0048] FIGURE 22: illustrates the insertion of a finger under a cover of the ostomy devices
disclosed herein and lifting, wherein the cover could be intentionally torn to release the folded
pouch.
[0049] FIGURE 23: illustrates the removal of a two-piece version of the devices disclosed
herein, with a final step of removing the device from the ostomy wafer and leaving the ostomy
wafer in place.

[0050] FIGURE 24: illustrates the stool expelled from the stoma that becomes trapped above
the stoma and effectively functions as a temporary seal.
[0051] FIGURE 25: illustrates a baffle which could be fixed in place, by means of welding,
adhesives, or discrete fasteners, so that access to a prefilter would be limited to an inwardly
radial path.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0052] Numerous medical conditions may require ostomy surgery resulting in the creation of a
fecal or urinary stoma and the patient will eliminate waste into a container attached to their
abdomen. This container is typically a bag or pouch that is attached to the body around the
stoma by a wafer of bioadhesive called a skin barrier for its ability to protect the peristomal skin
from stomal effluent. When the collecting bag is removably attached to wafer via a coupling
mechanism, it is referred to as a two-piece device. When the wafer and the bag are permanently
attached to each other, the device is referred to as a one-piece device, or a one-piece pouch, or
sometimes simply as a pouch.
[0053] A controlled evacuation device incorporating a collection pouch that can be deployed
to allow release and capture of effluent while the device is being worn has been described in
Patent Application US2012/0283678. This document describes devices and methods,
particularly ostomy or controlled evacuation devices that can be worn to achieve fecal
continence for several hours. And when the need to evacuate occurs, the collection pouch can be
deployed to allow capture of effluent for many additional hours until the wearer desires to
remove the device. Such an invention offers the wearer temporary continence. But it also can be
worn after effluent is released, by means of the pouch that can be deployed for storage of
released effluent.
[0054] Ostomy pouches are typically formed by sealing two panels of odor-proof film about a
perimeter, the body side pouch panel and the front-side pouch panel. This sealed perimeter is
sometimes referred to as the pouch outline weld reflecting a commonly used heat sealing
process. The body side pouch panel typically includes a means to attach to a skin barrier, and
the skin barrier and body-side pouch panel having a co-located opening for receiving the stoma.
Because the pouch's odor proof plastic films will adhere to skin should it become wet with
perspiration the pouch is typically surrounded with a layer of softer fabric material, for example
a layer of nonwoven fabric, which may be cut and welded together with the pouch film panels.
Pouches typically have a deodorizing filter to allow deodorized flatus to escape the pouch
volume and maintain a flat, discrete wear.
[0055] The shape of the stoma typically changes from what was surgically created and if these
changes are non-uniform or asymmetrical then a need arises to customize the opening in the skin
                                                 -6-

barrier through which the stoma protrudes into the pouch. It has been found in several human
studies that the fit of the wafer around the stoma significantly impacts the ability of the skin
barrier to protect peristomal skin. The resultant skin damage from an improperly fitted ostomy
skin barrier directly impacts the quality of life for the ostomate. It has further been learned that
molding the skin barrier to the shape of the stoma improves the fit of the appliance to the stoma.
For these reasons it is desirable to include moldable wafer technology in the design of one piece
pouches.
[0056] Ostomates require a pouch immediately following surgery and essentially for the
lifetime of the stoma (note that the surgery can be reversed). As a result the pouch design may
not be optimum in all circumstances. For example, post operatively there are various early
complications that may impact the stoma and patient including ischemia, stomal retraction,
bleeding, and mucocutaneous separation. For these reasons it is desirable to visualize the stoma
arid pouch contents immediately post operatively. Later complications may also benefit from
this visualization. For these reasons a clear or transparent pouch is often selected for use
immediately post operatively so that the care giver can readily observe the stoma and pouch
contents.
[0057] In contrast to the above situation it has been found that many patients recovering from
recent ostomy surgery do not wish to see their stoma. The site of the protruding stoma and
presence of waste outside the body can be unsettling and for this reason the ostomate will soon
substitute an opaque pouch for the clear post operation pouch as they return to normal activities
in the community.
[0058]    To accommodate these different requirements ostomy pouch manufacturers make both
transparent and opaque pouches. Recently pouches have also been designed with an additional
front panel to create a stoma observation mechanism comprising a flat, opaque sheet that can be
lifted up or pulled apart to reveal a transparent undersheet that comprises the front panel of the
ostomy pouch proper. See, e.g., FIG. la-c. In this way the stoma and pouch contents may be
observed or hidden by the same pouch design. More commonly the design of the observation
mechanism includes a split in the opaque sheet created by cutting through the layer of comfort
material on the front of the pouch in an area where the stoma can be viewed. Initially this split
may be weakly attached in a closed position by an incomplete split, for example perforations.
By doing so the comfort panel remains flat during processing, and ostomates who do not: wish
to view their stoma are not concerned that the split may accidentally open. To view the stoma
any perforations that may be present are broken so that the opaque sheet can be pulled apart. If
no perforations are used then the sheet is simply lifted. The stoma observation mechanisms
believed to include the entire prior art have designs that are either "straight through",
                                                  -7-

approximately linear aligned laterally across the face of the front of the pouch, or curved of
various degrees of curvature, rounded up like the bottom half of a clock face. In all cases the
mechanism includes a design wherein the opaque sheet has a significant proportion of its
perimeter trapped in the outline weld of the two odor proof pouch panels.
[0059] It has been discovered that several drawbacks exist with the state of the art for stoma
observation mechanisms comprising opaque sheets covering the front pouch panel.
[0060] When the flat opaque sheet is attached to the pouch at the pouch outline weld as part of
the seal between the two pouch panels it cannot be easily opened far enough to reveal all of the
stoma without jeopardizing the integrity of the pouch seal. Additionally, the pouch contents are
extremely difficult to observe because the sheet cannot be lifted far enough to see to the bottom
of the pouch. This situation is particularly difficult when the opaque sheet is lifted up from the
bottom because the ostomate is normally looking down from above the pouch, and the lifted
opaque sheet will bunch up directly above the viewing area. Moreover the ostomates hand will
be holding the opaque sheet and so will also obstruct viewing.
[0061] This situation illustrates further drawbacks that the ostomate will realize when trying to
view the stoma through the split opening during pouch fitment. On a flat abdomen the ostomate
may be able to directly see the stoma during fitment of the skin barrier. However, sometimes
the stoma cannot be observed directly as a result of an interceding body part like a protruding
abdomen or breast. In this case fitment of the wafer to the stoma is accomplished by viewing
the stoma reflection in a mirror. Fitment is aided when the mirror is oriented so that the stoma is
viewed through the front pouch panel. For transparent pouches this method of fitment is
commonly used. In the case where the stoma is obscured by an opaque sheet, when a hand is
required to keep that sheet open then that hand is unavailable for fitment of the skin barrier.
Additionally, the act of pulling open the split can cause the wafer to become ruffled or otherwise
render it not flat as required for proper application to the peristomal skin.
[0062] Stoma viewing mechanisms comprised of split opaque sheets have several additional
limitations. First, when a perforated sheet is used, because the split film is initially weakly
attached by an incomplete cut, the ostomate must physically separate the split. This can be
difficult for some ostomates who often have limited manual dexterity and visual acuity. Second,
the act of "breaking" part of the pouch creates apprehension about whether the pouch may be
inadvertently damaged by the procedure. Third, once it has been opened the sheet may not
readily close to the same flatness as prior to opening. As a result the opened split sheet renders
the device less discrete and more likely to catch on clothing, increasing the problem. The
possibility also exists that the opened area may capture something from the surrounding
environment, for example water from a shower or pool, causing inconvenient wetness,
                                                 -8-

uncomfortable sag, and additional weight in the pouch. Finally, other pouch components that
may be attached to the front pouch panel, for example the pouch filter, are impacted by the
requirement that they be compatible with the presence of the opaque split sheet.
[0063] It addition it may be desirable to provide these functions in other configurations that can
be attached worn as a one-piece appliance or as a two-piece appliance that can be worn in
conjunction with a separate ostomy wafer, to which the device can be removeably attached to
the wearer.
[0064] In some embodiments provided herein, an ostomy appliance of the present invention
provides a protective release liner design and a novel collar design.
[0065] As mentioned above, the bioadhesive, which is part of the ostomy appliance, secures the
collection bag or pouch to the human body. This bioadhesive is protected with a silicone
release-coated film or release liner. Most products that are available to the ostomates today use
a single release liner which is removed as one-piece prior to use. However, it has been
discovered that many enterostomal nurses teach their patients to apply the pouch by cutting their
stoma shaped pattern into the skin barrier and then folding it in half horizontally, by folding
down the top half of the skin barrier so that it is doubled over the bottom half of the skin barrier.
The pouch, including the folded adhesive, is then held under the stoma and raised until the skin
barrier contacts the peristomal skin adjacent to the bottom half of the stoma. The skin barrier is
then unfolded and placed against the peristomal skin all around the stoma including now the top
half. This technique allows the wearer to better visualize application of the skin barrier around
the stoma to ensure proper placement for optimum skin protection. To facilitate this technique
embodiments of the present invention allow the release liner to be removed in separate
segments, including segments designed to assist folding the wafer, and to assist in estimating
where the wafer is to be folded, including, for example, at the half-way point. In addition to the
abovementioned situation for cut to fit wafers, in the case where the wafer will be molded to tilt
the stoma shape, this design enables the release liner to be removed in segments to facilitate
molding as well, for example when the adhesive section near the stoma has to be manipulated
for better fit around the stoma by hands, and so removing the release liner entirely could cause
contamination of the skin adhering area during manipulation of the central area.
[0066] To address this issue, embodiments of the present invention include a segmented release
liner design (FIG. 2) which is removed in following steps:
        Step 1: Release liner tab marked "I"is removed first.
        Step 2: The exposed adhesive around the central starter hole is manipulated to increase
        the hole size to fit around stoma.
        Step 3: Lift tab marked "II" and fold in half.
                                                  -9-

         Step 4: Attach exposed bottom half of adhesive collar to bottom portion of stoma.
         Step 5: Remove release liner completely by pulling tab marked "2" and attach the
         adhesive around top half of stoma.
[0067] Yet another aspect included herein is the shape of the adhesive collar that holds the
collection bag or pouch in place during use. It is known that typically, leakage occurs due to
skin folds at the 3 and 9 o clock positions on the adhesive collar, and due to gravity it leaks
through the bottom as shown in FIG. 3.
[0068] The heart-shaped adhesive collar (FIG. 4) provides additional adhesive around the
stoma between the 3 o'clock and 9 o'clock positions, including also the 6 o'clock position, thus
reducing the possibility of leakage that occurs at these positions. Additional adhesive or
reinforcement of adhesive around the stoma could also occur at other positions, including at or
near at least one of the positions of 3 o'clock, 4 o'clock, 5 o'clock, 6 o'clock, 7 o'clock, 8
o'clock or 9 o'clock.
[0069] The segmented release liner comprises a flexible film or paper which is coated with
silicone or other release coatings. The film is made of polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester,
EVA, polyamide, polycarbonate, or a combination thereof. The heart-shaped adhesive collar
may be used in conjunction with the segmented release liner as yet another embodiment of the
controlled evacuation devices provided herein. FIG. 5.
[0070] It has been discovered that the failings of the prior art can be alleviated by dissociation,
i.e. partial, near or total disassociation of the split sheet from the outline weld of the pouch. In
an example of the preferred embodiment shown below the sheet is in the form of a flat "flap" of
opaque sheet that may have one or more layers. It is substantially detachable from the pouch
outline weld to the extent that it moves freely and independent of the body of the pouch. The
dissociation from the outline weld is to an extent where the sheet or flap can be easily
manipulated by hand to reveal a significant proportion of the area of the pouch that it initially
covered prior to manipulation. Visualization of both the stoma and pouch contents is greatly
improved compared with split opening opaque sheet designs.
[0071] Another improvement is realized when sufficient freedom of movement created in the
detached sheet such that it is enabled to be maintained in a stoma viewing position, or "open",
without the need to be continuously contacted by an opening force or mechanism, for example
hand contact. One embodiment provided herein is to fold the flap over the top of the pouch. In
this way hands are freed to be available for proper wafer fitment and without obstructing the
view of the stoma. Components that may be used to secure the flap in an open or closed
position include layers of pressure sensitive adhesive mechanical interlocking or interfering
mechanisms or other frictional restraints. For one piece pouches with moldable skin barriers it
                                                   - Mn-

becomes possible to manually manipulate the molding adhesive with one or both hands.
Molding and other fitment processes or adjustments can be accomplished by indirectly
contacting the adhesive while pressing on the transparent front pouch panel. Because this
manipulation can be easily visualized it further improves the fitment procedure and betters the
quality of life for ostomates by preventing painful and irritating peristomal skin damage.
Release Coated Inner Pouch Film
[0072] Another aspect included herein is the fitment through the front pouch panel, which is
further improved by including a release coated sheet between the front pouch panel and the
adhesive surface internal to the pouch. The release coated sheet prevents adhesion between the
pouch panel and the surface of adhesive being molded. A further benefit is that the release
coated surface aids in release of pasty stomal effluent from the pouch front panel and causing it
to slide down the pouch more easily. Bulking of pasty fecal effluent stuck to the pouch front
panel is not discrete, and when effluent falls to the bottom of the pouch wearing the pouch is
more comfortable for the pouch user. It also greatly benefits pouch function. Effluent pasted to
the pouch panel opposite the stoma can adhere the two pouch panels together, causing them to
"block" and effectively close off some volume of the pouch. Thus the pouch is prevented from
readily accepting additional effluent. If new effluent cannot enter the pouch the pouch filter
may become fouled with effluent. The pathway for flatus to find the filter may be obstructed
and the filter will not receive and deodorize flatus. Other issues may include effluent forced
under the skin barrier, either by peristaltic excretion or pneumatically by force of unvented
flatus.
[0073] Because embodiments of this invention enable a significant proportion of the initially
covered area to be easily exposed anything that may be captured from the environment, for
example water from a pool or shower, can be easily untrapped and removed or dried.
[0074] An additional benefit is that operations that may be done to the front of the pouch, for
example during pouch manufacture, are made easier since the flap can be moved out of the way
of the pouch front panel. The flap can be either attached during the welding of the pouch outline
or in a later process step, improving process flexibility.
[0075] Because less distortion of the flap is required to view the stoma it is more flat when
released or returned to its stoma hiding position, or "closed." The perception that the wearer may
damage the pouch by tugging on perforations or otherwise distressing a sheet trapped in the
pouch outline weld is eliminated. Since the sheet is less constrained it is more receptive to
additional components that may be used to temporarily "lock" the sheet in the closed position.
These components fit more easily on the pouch and are easier to manufacture. Additional
components comprising a layer or layers of pressure sensitive adhesive; mechanically
                                                 - 11 -

interlocking or interfering mechanisms, or other chemical or physical connections between the
flap and the pouch body that are capable of maintaining the hiding sheet in a closed position
against the frictional or shear forces of ordinary clothing and body movement are incorporated
herein.
[0076] A further element of the preferred embodiment of the invention includes the ability to
"tuck" at least some portion of the flap into the pouch front panel or a secondary front panel or
the pouch comfort material layer wherein the flap may be secured or secreted in either open or
closed position. See FIG. 6. In the picture above the flap can be manipulated in either direction,
lifted or inverted, by folding it towards the pouch body and directing it through the opening
between where it attaches to the pouch at the pouch outline weld. By tucking the flap into the
opened area the stoma can be continuously visualized without the need for the flap to be
constantly held out of the field of view. In this way the upper tuck "locks" the visualization
mechanism in an open position for stoma viewing. Similarly, the flap may be manipulated into
the down or closed position and any part of its edge inserted into a fold or an opening created
adjacent to the flap perimeter in either the pouch front panel or a secondary front panel or the
pouch comfort material layer wherein the flap may be secured or secreted in the closed position.
[0077] A stoma viewing mechanism comprising a flap that is held closed by adhering to the
underlying pouch via a pressure sensitive adhesive, VELCRO®, hook and loop, or a sleeve
mechanism. An especially preferred embodiment is that the flap includes partially or is entirely
comprised of either the hook or the loop portion of a hook and loop or hook and hook fastening
system, and the pouch film or comfort panel itself comprises the other half of the closure
system, i.e., either the opposing hook or loop. Alternatively, another embodiment is that the
pouch film or comfort panel includes partially or is entirely comprised of either the hook or the
loop portion of a hook and loop or hook and hook fastening system, and the flap itself comprises
the other half of the closure system, i.e., either the opposing hook or loop.
Controlled Evacuation Ostomy Device
[0078] A controlled evacuation ostomy device should perform three basic functions:
              - Prevent escape of effluent from the stoma or out of the device
              - Allow venting of gas that is released from the stoma
              - Allow for controlled capture of effluent that is released from the stoma
[0079] In addition to embodiments described in US Patent Application 2012/0283678, there
are alternative means to achieve these functions. Embodiments provided herein improve the
function of such devices, improving ease of use, broadening its scope of use, and reducing its
manufactured cost.
[0080] In some embodiments, an inflatable seal is incorporated in or into the outer wall of the
                                                 -  12 -

pouch (1), as seen in FIG. 7. In some embodiments, the inflatable seal may be employed to seal
the surface of the outer wall of the pouch. Exemplary embodiments may include, for example,
inflatable seals as described in US Patent No. 8,217,221, incorporated herein by reference for
this disclosure. As such, it is possible to simplify the structure of the device by employing the
outer pouch wall (1) as the sealing surface.
[0081] An outer panel (2) enclosing the inflatable seal (6) may also be used, as illustrated in
FIG. 8. This panel may be made of flexible film or, alternatively, be made of a semi-rigid
material or may be molded in a rigid material. In some embodiments, this panel may incorporate
all appropriate fluid flow control elements. Exemplary embodiments may include fluid flow
control elements as described in US Patent Nos. 7,347,844, 6,723,079, 8,092,437, 8,096,980,
and US Patent Application No. 2011/0040269, incorporated by reference herein for this
disclosure.
[0082] In some embodiments, a coupling member may be employed comprising at least one
contiguous adhesive element. It may be desirable in some cases to employ two or more
elements, which may be concentric (3). See, e.g., FIG. 9. In some embodiments, the ostomy
devices employing at least one contiguous adhesive element may benefit by the contiguous
adhesive element acting as a "break" for undermining, or radial channeling, of effluent in a
singular direction. Once the effluent encounters the break, the effluent in the ostomy device may
be presented with a new and intact adhesive barrier to resist local channeling. In some
embodiments, exemplary structures of contiguous adhesive elements may be found, for
example, in US Patent Application No. 2012/0283678, incorporated by reference for this
disclosure.
[0083] In yet other embodiments, the ostomy devices and methods disclosed herein may be
able to effectively vent and deodorize gas that is released from the stoma in order to avoid build
up of pressure in the bowel and in the device. See, e.g., FIG. 10. Such pressure could weaken
the attachment between the adhesive wafer and the wearer's skin, potentially shortening the life
expectancy of the device. Such pressure could also potentially cause discomfort for the wearer.
[0084] It is important that ostomy devices and methods disclosed herein incorporating at least
one vent and one filter be prevented from clogging and fouling with effluent. Clogging of the
vent path with effluent can prevent the device from venting, causing pressure build-up within the
device. Fouling of the filter with the solid or liquid component of feces can destroy the filter's
ability to deodorize. Protection of the vent and filter from clogging and fouling may be achieved
by creating a broad vent path with multiple paths of access to the filter. This effect is enhanced
by creating a tortuous path to the filter, so that if one path is blocked, many other paths are
available for flow. One method of creating a tortuous path is to utilize a series of pleats or

bumps formed in the film itself. Another method is to use a layer of open cell foam (7) to protect
the filter (see FIG. 10).
[0085] Such a vent (4) and filter (5) could be located above the inflatable seal (6) (see FIG.
10). Alternatively, it could be located in the head space of the pouch or in the pouch itself (see
FIGS. 11 and 12).
[0086] In some embodiments, stowage of the pouch (8) is included in the overall structure of
the device. Folding and then rolling the pouch for storage at the bottom edge of the device has
been previously described. In some embodiments incorporated herein, the pouch may be folded
in alternate layers across the outer face of the device (see FIG. 13). Folding of the pouch results
in a folded structure that is thin, does not place an unacceptable amount of localized stress on the
pouch film, is easily unfolded, and which does not interfere with the flow of gas through the
filter and vent system.
[0087] In some embodiments, alternative folding arrangements may be employed. These would
typically involve, but not be limited to, creating longitudinal folds (9) in the pouch, followed by
latitudinal folds (10) or diagonal folds (11) (see FIG. 14).
[0088] In some embodiments, flow of vented gas is facilitated out of the device, which can be
achieved through several means. One such embodiment incorporates longitudinal pleats (12) in
the outer pouch film to ensure that the film, when folded, provides a flow path for gas out of the
device (see FIG. 15). In most, but not all embodiments, that flow path would include a filter,
such as a matrix of activated carbon in a porous medium.
[0089] In yet another embodiment, incorporated herein are features (13) formed in the element,
as detailed above, covering the filter to provide a flow path out of the filter (see FIG. 16).
[0090] In still another embodiment, disclosed here is the use of at least one additional element
to act as a spacer between the face of the device and the folded pouch to provide a flow path for
the effluent. This element can be, but would not be limited to, a stamped component, with or
without raised features. In other embodiments, the element could also be made of a porous
material, which includes but is not limited to such features as an open cell foam (14) (see FIG.
17).
[0091] In still another embodiment, included are methods of altering folding the pouch to leave
the vent path at least partially unobstructed (see, e.g., FIG. 18). There are alternative means of
altering folding the pouch. The object here is to leave the vent path at least partially
unobstructed through the pattern of folding utilized.
[0092] In some embodiments, it is important to enclose the pouch to hold it in place against the
device in order to maintain the thinnest possible profile for the device, prevent inadvertent
opening of the pouch, and to provide a pleasing appearance. In some embodiments, a flexible

molded element is utilized to cover the device. Features that include a flexible molded element
can be found as described in US Patent Application No. 2012/0283678, incorporate herein by
reference for this disclosure.
[0093] Alternatively, it is possible to incorporate a film element (15) to cover the device. The
film could be a flexible, non-elastic, material that fully or partially covers the device. It would
hold the pouch in its thin, folded configuration while also holding the inflatable seal in place
against the stoma (see, e.g., FIG. 19).
[0094] The cover, in one embodiment, could be open at the bottom end to allow the pouch to
be pulled out from under the cover when it is time to change the device. Pulling the film out
from the cover, by means of a protruding tab (16) or other means of engaging the pouch, would
allow the pouch to be unfolded and fill with stool as the seal is pulled away from the stoma (see
FIG. 20).
[0095]    Alternatively, in other embodiments, the cover could have one of more weakened areas
such as lines of perforations (17). By inserting a finger under the cover and lifting, the cover
could be intentionally torn to release the folded pouch (see, e.g., FIGS. 21 and 22).
[0096] In some embodiments, the cover could be attached one or more points, or continuously
around its outer edge, to the wafer as an anchoring means.
[0097] In some embodiments, the devices described herein may be used as a self-contained,
single-use device. That is, the sealing element, vent and filter system, containment pouch, and
adhesive wafer are all integral elements of the same, single-use device. The entire device is
removed by deploying the pouch, pulling the seal away from the stoma, allowing the pouch to
fill with effluent, and then removing the adhesive from the peristomal area of the wearer. After
removal, the device is disposed of and is replaced by an identical device or by a standard ostomy
pouch.
[0098] In yet other embodiments, the devices disclosed herein could be designed to removably
attach to a "two-piece" style of ostomy wafer by means of a coupling system (18). Removal of a
two-piece version of the device would be accomplished as above, but with the final step of
removing the device from the ostomy wafer and leaving the ostomy wafer in place (see, e.g.,
FIG. 23).
[0099] In some embodiments, the abovementioned cover, in the event that a two-piece
attachment approach is employed, could be attached to the coupling. In some embodiments, for
ostomates with firm stool and/or regular and predictable bowel activity, a device is produced as
above, including the embodiments as described above, but without an inflatable seal. Instead, the
interior volume of the device would at least partially fill with stool (19) as it is expelled from the
stoma. In this design, the stool expelled from the stoma becomes trapped above the stoma and

effectively functions as a temporary seal (see FIG. 24).
[00100]     For a device of this type to function effectively, it is important that it maintain an
effective venting path in the presence of stool. One such vent path would feature a large area
flow path and would include a multiple of tortuous paths to maintain effective venting even if a
large percentage of the vent path is clogged. As described above, that flow path would usually,
but not always, include a filter for deodorization.
[00101]     In some embodiments of this type of filter, the devices disclosed would incorporate a
filter (5) attached to the outer film wall of the pouch. It would also incorporate a pre-filter (7)
featuring a tortuous path to protect the filter. One such prefilter would consist of open cell foam.
It may be desirable to direct flow into the prefilter by means of a protective baffle (20) that
would limit access to it only from specific directions. For example, the baffle could be fixed in
place, by means of welding, adhesives, or discrete fasteners, so that access to the Prefilter would
be limited to an inwardly radial path (see FIG. 25).
[00102] In some embodiments, and in order to accommodate a full range of stoma
protrusions, the devices disclosed herein may incorporate a means of accommodating a stoma
with higher protrusion. Such means could include a larger cover that would extend further
when the appliance is worn. Alternatively, a two-piece coupling with a taller profile would
accommodate a stoma with higher protrusion.
[00103]     Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in
this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of
the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or more
other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereto.
                                                  -16-

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.       An ostomy pouch comprising an adhesive collar to secure the pouch around a stoma,
wherein the adhesive is exposed to an inside of the pouch for fitting around the stoma, wherein
the pouch comprises a release coated surface to allow manipulation of the adhesive through the
pouch, and to prevent blocking of the pouch during storage or use.
2.       An ostomy pouch comprising an adhesive collar that is 'heart shaped' to increase
adhered area in a 3 and 9 o'clock position, and reduced adhered area at a top section.
3.       An ostomy pouch comprising an adhesive collar that is 'heart shaped' to increase
adhered area between 3 and 9 o'clock positions, including a 6 o'clock position, and reduced
adhered area at a top section.
4.       An ostomy pouch comprising a stoma viewing mechanism including a partially or totally
opaque sheet of material on a front panel that has more than about 50% of its perimeter detached
from the pouch.
5.       The ostomy pouch of claim 4 wherein the partially or totally opaque sheet of material
that has more than about 65% of its perimeter detached from the pouch.
6.       The ostomy pouch of claim 4 wherein the partially or totally opaque sheet of material
that has more than about 80% of its perimeter detached from the pouch.
7.       The ostomy pouch of any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein the partially or totally opaque
sheet of material that reveals more than 60% of its initially covered pouch area when manually
manipulated to a stoma viewing position by 2 or fewer digits, for example a finger and thumb.
8.       The ostomy pouch of any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein the partially or totally opaque
sheet of material that reveals more than 70% of its initially covered pouch area when manually
manipulated to a stoma viewing position by 2 or fewer digits, for example a finger and thumb.
9.       The ostomy pouch of any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein the stoma viewing mechanism
comprising a partially or totally opaque sheet of material that reveals more than 75% of its
initially covered pouch area when manually manipulated to a stoma viewing position by 2 or
fewer digits, for example a finger and thumb.
10.      An ostomy pouch having a stoma viewing mechanism which can also conceal and/or
hide a stoma and the pouch contents as needed.
                                               - 17 -

11.     A stoma viewing mechanism comprising a flap that is held closed by adhering to an
underlying pouch via a pressure sensitive adhesive, Velcro, hook and loop, or a sleeve
mechanism.
12.     A stoma viewing mechanism comprising a flap that is held closed by the flap that
includes partially or is entirely comprised of either the hook or the loop portion of a hook and
loop or hook and hook fastening system, and a pouch film or comfort panel itself comprises the
other half of the closure system, ie either the opposing hook or loop, or where the pouch film or
comfort panel includes partially or is entirely comprised of either the hook or the loop portion of
a hook and loop or hook and hook fastening system, and the flap itself comprises the other half
of the closure system, ie either the opposing hook or loop.
                                                 - 18 -

<removed-date>
              1/14
<removed-apn>           FIG. 1A
                     FIG. 1B
                      FIG. 1C

<removed-date>
                             2/14
<removed-apn>
              I
                                               II
                             FIG. 2
                      ABDOM INAL CURVES
                  AREA FOR          AREA FOR
                  HANDLING          HANDLING
                                                      LEAKAGE AREA
                                                         DUE TO
                                                       SKIN FOLDS
                                          LEAKAGE AREA DUE
                                             TO GRAVITY
                             FIG. 3

                       <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                                    I
                                                 3/14
FIG. 5   FIG. 4   II

<removed-date>
                        4/14
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 6A          FIG. 6B
              FIG. 6C          FIG. 6D

<removed-date>
               5/14
                      6       1
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 7
                          2       1
                          6
              FIG. 8

<removed-date>
                                6/14
                                                           3
<removed-apn>
                  1   2
                                       6
              3
                              FIG. 9
                                           4
                                               5
                      2                            7
                                                       1
                          6
                              FIG. 10

<removed-date>
                                   7/14
                                                4
                      2                     5           7
              1
<removed-apn>
                          6
                                  FIG. 11
                          4
                  7           5                     2
                                                            1
                                   6
                                  FIG. 12

<removed-date>
                            8/14
              * * * ORIGINAL DRAWING WAS UNCLEAR
                                                   1
<removed-apn>
                  6
                        FIG. 13
                        8
                                                       9
                                             11
                                                           10
                        FIG. 14

<removed-date>
                 9/14
                        12
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 15
                             13
              FIG. 16

<removed-date>
                10/14
                        14
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 17
              FIG. 18

<removed-date>
                   11/14
                           15
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 19
              16
              FIG. 20

<removed-date>
               12/14
                        17
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 21
              FIG. 22

<removed-date>
                           13/14
                                   17
                   8
                                        6
<removed-apn>
              18
                                             1
                       FIG. 23
                                        19
                       FIG. 24

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          20   7
                                     14/14
FIG. 25
                   5
               5

