                                              ABSTRACT
               The present invention concerns methods for identifying, producing, and engineering
  binding molecule conjugates, and to the conjugates produced. In particular, the invention
5 concerns Surrobody conjugates composed of an antibody heavy chain variable domain and a
  surrogate light chain, wherein the surrogate light chain and/or the antibody heavy chain
  variable domain is conjugated to a therapeutic or diagnostic agent.
  9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                                     BINDING MOLECULE COJUGATES
                                             Related Applications
                This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61/589,272
 5 filed January 20, 2012 and 61/848,379 filed January 2, 2013, the contents of which are
   incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
   Application No. 2013209512 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present
   specification.
10
                                             Field of the Invention
                The present invention concerns methods for identifying, producing, and engineering
   binding molecule conjugates, and to the conjugates produced. In particular, the invention
   concerns Surrobody conjugates composed of an antibody heavy chain variable domain and a
15 surrogate light chain, wherein the surrogate light chain or the antibody heavy chain variable
   domain is conjugated to a therapeutic or diagnostic agent.
                                         Background of the Invention
                Significant efforts have been directed to the development of antibodies conjugated to
20 a variety of therapeutic or diagnostic agents. The use of antibody-drug conjugates or
   immunoconjugates for the targeted delivery of an anti-cancer agent is an area of great
   interest. Because many anti-cancer drugs target the cell cycle and kill rapidly proliferating
   cells, they do not discriminate between healthy and tumorous tissue. This lack of
   discrimination results in narrow therapeutic indices and causes severe treatment-related side
25 effects that limit efficacy, because concentrations of drug that would significantly impact
   tumor growth are intolerable. Conjugating such potent molecules to specific antibodies has
   proven successful in delivering these potent molecules to the tumor site via the selective
   nature of the antibodies, at levels that effectively counter tumor growth and importantly limit
   exposure to noncancerous tissues/cells.
30              Linking such anti-cancer drugs to antibodies is achieved by several types of
   compatible amino acid side chain chemistry, typically through lysine amines and cysteine
   sulfhydryls. Aside from selecting appropriate cytotoxic agents and linkers, the challenge for
                                                        1
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   all approaches remains at least two-fold. The first challenge is due to the fact that each new
   targeting antibody can be vastly different from the previous, with respect to the nature of
   their heavy and light chains, and the resulting composition of naturally occurring side chain
   chemistries can vary substantially. The net result is that distinct conjugating efforts are
 5 expected for nearly every new antibody. Secondly, as the heavy chain is the most likely
   target of most conjugation chemistries and that it is predominantly responsible for the
   specificity and stability of antibodies, chemical derivatization of this chain is inherently more
   likely to have deleterious effects on the specificity and stability of the antibody. There
   remains a need for alternative formats for immunoconjugates.
10              SURROBODIES TM (Surrobglobulins) are a new class of binding molecules which
   utilize surrogate light chain sequences. Surrobodies are based on the pre-B cell receptor (pre
   BCR), which is produced during normal development of antibody repertoire. Precursors of B
   cells (pre-B cells) have been identified in the bone marrow by their production of a set of
   genes called VpreB(1-3) and X5, instead of the fully developed light chains, and coexpression
15 of p heavy chains. The VpreB and k5 polypeptides together form a non-covalently
   associated, Ig light chain-like structure, which is called the surrogate light chain or pseudo
   light chain. Both VpreB and ?15 are encoded by genes that do not undergo gene
   rearrangement and are expressed in early pre-B cells before V(D)J recombination begins.
   The pre-BCR is structurally different from a mature immunoglobulin in that it is composed of
20 a heavy chain and two non-covalently associated proteins: VpreB and X5, i.e., they have three
   components as opposed to two in antibodies.
                A K-like B cell receptor (K-like BCR) has also been identified, utilizing a K-like
   surrogate light chain (K-like SLC) (Frances et al., EMBO J 13:5937-43 (1994); Thompson et
   al., Immunogenetics 48:305-11 (1998); Rangel et al., JBiol Chem 280:17807-14 (2005)).
25 Rangel et al., supra report the identification and molecular characterization of a VK-like
   protein that is the product of an unrearranged Vigene, which turned out to the be identical to
   the cDNA sequence previously reported by Thompson et al., supra. Whereas, Frances et al.,
   supra reported the identification and characterization of a rearranged germline JCk that has
   the capacity to associate with [t heavy chains at the surface of B cell precursors, thereby
30 providing an alternative to the A pathway for B cell development.         It has been proposed that
   K-like and k-like pre-BCRs work in concert to promote light chain rearrangement and ensure
                                                       2
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   the maturation of B cell progenitors. For a review, see McKeller and Martinez-Valdez
   Seminars in Immunology 18:4043 (2006).
                Further details of the design and production of Surrobodies@ (Surroglobulins) are
   provided in Xu et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2008, 105(31):10756-61, Xu et al., J Mol.
 5 Biol. 2010, 397, 352-360, and in PCT Publication Nos. WO 2008/118970 published on
   October 2, 2008; WO/2010/006286 published on January 14, 2010; WO/2010/151808
   published on December 29, 2010; PCT/US2012/044746 filed June 28, 2012 (the entire
   disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety).
                In the design of a traditional antibody-based immunoconjugate, the ability to avoid
10 conjugation of the heavy chain is highly desirable; furthermore the ability to target invariant
   sites on the heavy chain partner would be ideal. The surrogate light chain of the Surrobody
   provides such an ideal opportunity. As the surrogate light chain is non-diverse the
   composition of opportunistic naturally occurring side chains would remain unchanged from
   one surrobody to the next. As a result, it would be possible to direct conjugate chemistries
15 exclusively to the surrogate light chain and utilize a single derivatization strategy for each
   subsequent new Surrobody.
                It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
   general knowledge in the art in Australia or any other country.
20
                                           Summary of the Invention
                In one aspect, the present invention provides a binding molecule conjugate
   comprising a surrogate light chain (SLC) polypeptide. In one embodiment, the SLC
   polypeptide has at least one agent linked to an amino acid residue of the SLC polypeptide at a
25 predetermined amino acid position. In another embodiment, the amino acid residue is (i)
   normally present in the SLC polypeptide at said amino acid position, and/or (ii) introduced
   into the amino acid sequence of said SLC polypeptide at said amino acid position.
                In another aspect, the binding molecule conjugate comprises a binding molecule that
   is a Surrobody. In one embodiment, the Surrobody comprises an SLC polypeptide. In
30 another embodiment, the SLC polypeptide comprises a VpreB sequence and/or X sequence
   conjugated to a heterologous amino acid sequence. In an additional embodiment, the SLC
   polypeptide comprises a VpreB sequence. In another embodiment, the heterologous amino
   acid sequence comprises a X sequence. In other em bodiments, the X sequence is fused to
                                                          3
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   the VpreB sequence. In some embodiments, the SLC polypeptide comprises a fusion of a
   VpreB sequence to a heterologous amino acid sequence. In one embodiment, the
   heterologous amino acid sequence is a A sequence o r an antibody light chain variable region
   sequence. In one other embodiment, the antibody light chain variable region sequence is
 5 fused to said VpreB sequence at a site analogous to an antibody light chain CDR3 region, or
   the CDR3 region of said antibody light chain variable region sequence is fused to said VpreB
   sequence at a site analogous to said CDR3 region. In other embodiments, the antibody light
   chain is a chain or a a ichain. In one other em     bodiment, the heterologous amino acid
   sequence further comprises an antibody light chain constant region sequence. In an
10 additional embodiment, the constant region sequence is the entire constant region of an
   antibody light chain.
                In one other embodiment, the Surrobody comprises an SLC polypeptide, wherein the
   SLC polypeptide comprises a VpreB sequence and/or A sequence conjugated to a
   heterologous amino acid sequence, wherein the SLC polypeptide comprises a A sequence.
15 In one embodiment, the heterogeneous amino acid sequence is a VpreB sequence conjugated
   to said A sequence. In another embodiment, the co njugation is a fusion of said A and
   VpreB sequences. In other embodiments, the conjugation is a covalent linkage between said
   A and VpreB sequences. In some embodiments, the c ovalent linkage is formed by a
   connecting peptide or polypeptide sequence.
20              In one additional embodiment, the SLC polypeptide comprises a VpreB sequence and
   a A sequence, wherein said conjugation is non -covalent association. In another embodiment,
   at least one of said VpreB and A sequences is a fr agment or variant of a native VpreB and X
   sequence, respectively.
                In one embodiment, the Surrobody comprises an SLC polypeptide, wherein the SLC
25 polypeptide comprises a VpreB sequence and/or A se quence conjugated to a heterologous
   amino acid sequence, wherein the SLC polypeptide is further conjugated to a second
   heterologous amino acid sequence. In one other embodiment, the SLC polypeptide
   comprises a fusion of a VpreB sequence to a A sequ ence, covalently associated with said
   second heterologous amino acid sequence. In another embodiment, the second
30 heterogeneous polypeptide sequence is an antibody heavy chain sequence comprising a
   variable region. In one embodiment, the antibody heavy chain sequence is conjugated to the
   fusion of said VpreB sequence and said A sequence . In another embodiment, the
   conjugation of said VpreB sequence and said A sequ ence is (i) by a peptide linker; or (ii) by
                                                     4
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   non-covalent association, to form a dimeric complex. In some embodiments, the antibody
   heavy chain variable region sequence binds to the same target as said SLC polypeptide, or the
   antibody heavy chain variable region sequence binds to a target different from the target to
   which said SLC polypeptide binds. In another embodiment, the Surrobody further comprises
 5 a polypeptide comprising one or more functionally null binding regions conjugated to the
   dimeric complex. In another embodiment, the polypeptide comprises an antibody heavy
   chain amino acid sequence.
                In one other embodiment, the Surrobody includes an SLC polypeptide that comprises
   a VpreB sequence and a X sequence, wherein said co njugation is non-covalent association,
10 and wherein the Surrobody further comprises an antibody heavy chain sequence comprising a
   variable region, non-covalently associated with the non-covalently associated VpreB
   sequence and Asequences, to form a trimeric compl ex. In another embodiment, the
   antibody heavy chain comprises variable region sequences binding to the same target as said
   SLC polypeptide, or the antibody heavy chain comprises variable region sequences binding
15 to a target different from the target to which said SLC polypeptide binds. In one other
   embodiment, the Surrobody further comprises a polypeptide comprising one or more
   functionally null binding regions conjugated to the trimeric complex. In another
   embodiment, the polypeptide comprises an antibody heavy chain amino acid sequence.
                In another aspect, the binding molecule conjugate is based upon a binding molecule
20 that comprises a surrogate light chain (SLC) polypeptide. In one embodiment, the SLC
   polypeptide has at least one agent linked to an amino acid residue of the SLC polypeptide at a
   predetermined amino acid position. In another embodiment, the amino acid residue is (i)
   normally present in the SLC polypeptide at said amino acid position, and/or (ii) introduced
   into the amino acid sequence of said SLC polypeptide at said amino acid position. In one
25 other embodiment, the amino acid residue is introduced into the amino acid sequence of the
   SLC polypeptide by a substitution or an insertion. In an additional embodiment, the amino
   acid residue is a cysteine or a lysine. In other embodiments, the amino acid residue is
   selected from the group consisting of a cysteine, a lysine, and a para-acetyl-phenylalanine
   (pAcF). In one other embodiment, the binding molecule is capable of binding at least one
30 target or at least two targets. In one embodiment, the agent is a therapeutic agent or a
   diagnostic agent. In some embodiments, the therapeutic agent is selected from the group
   consisting of a maytansinoid, a monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) and a monomethyl
   auristatin F (MMAF). In other embodiments, the diagnostic agent comprises a detectable
                                                       5
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   label. In one other embodiment, the detectable label is a fluorescent dye or a radionuclide.
   In some embodiments, the linker is a non-cleavable linker or a cleavable linker. In other
   embodiments, the non-cleavable linker comprises a maleimido-based moiety or a haloacetyl
   based moiety. In one embodiment, the cleavable linker is selected from the group consisting
 5 of a peptidyl linker, a pH-sensitive linker, and a linker cleavable under reducing conditions.
   In another embodiment, the peptidyl linker comprises a dipeptide linker. In one other
   embodiment, the linker is selected from the group consisting of N-succinimidyl 4
   (maleimidomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylate (SMCC), N-succinimidyl-4-(N
   maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxy-(6-amidocaproate), (LC-SMCC),               K
10 maleimidoundecanoic acid N-succinimidyl ester (KMUA), y-maleimidobutyric acid N
   succinimidyl ester (GMBS), c-maleimidocaproic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (EMCS),
   m-maleimidobenzoyl-N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (MBS), N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy)
   succinimide ester [AMAS], succinimidyl-6-(p-maleimidopropionamido)hexanoate (SMPH),
   N-succinimidyl 4-(p-maleimidophenyl)-butyrate (SMPB), N-(p-maleimidophenyl)isocyanate
15 (PMPI), 6-maleimidocaproyl (MC), maleimidopropanoyl (MP), valine-citrulline (val-cit),
   alanine-phenylalanine (ala-phe), p-aminobenzyloxycarbonyl (PAB), N-Succinimidyl 4-(2
   pyridylthio) pentanoate (SPP), maleimidocaproyl-L-valine-L-citrulline-p-aminobenzyl
   alcohol p-nitrophenylcarbonate (MC-val-cit-PAB), N-succinimidyl-4-(iodoacetyl)
   aminobenzoate (SIAB), N-succinimidyl iodoacetate (SIA), N-succinimidyl bromoacetate
20 (SBA), N-succinimidyl 3-(bromoacetamido)propionate (SBAP), N-succinimidyl-5
   acetylthioacetate (SATA), N-succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio)propionate (SPDP), N
   succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio)butyrate) (SPDB), and N-succinimidyl-oxycarbonyl-alpha
   methyl-alpha-(2-pyridyl-dithio)toluene) (SMPT).
                In one other aspect, the binding molecule conjugate is based on a binding molecule
25 that comprises an SLC polypeptide having at least one agent like to an amino acid residue of
   the SLC polypeptide at a predetermined amino acid position. In one embodiment, the amino
   acid residue is (i) normally present in the SLC polypeptide at said amino acid position, and/or
   (ii) introduced into the amino acid sequence of said SLC polypeptide at said amino acid
   position. In one other embodiment, the amino acid residue is located (i) at position 16 and/or
30 21 of a mature VpreB 1 sequence; and/or (ii) at one or more positions selected from the group
   consisting of 60, 74, 78, 79, 85, 91, 110, 123, 131, 133, 166, and 170 of a mature X
   sequence.
                                                       6
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                In another aspect, the present invention provides a Surrobody comprising a surrogate
   light chain (SLC) polypeptide having a particular amino acid sequence. In one embodiment,
   the SLC comprises at least one amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of:
   SSALGCTIRLT (SEQ ID NO: 37), TTIRLCCTLRN (SEQ ID NO: 38), SSVTHCFGSGT
 5 (SEQ ID NO: 39), VLSQPCATPSV (SEQ ID NO: 40), PKATPCVTLFP (SEQ ID NO: 41),
   KATPSCTLFPP (SEQ ID NO: 42), TLFPPCSEELQ (SEQ ID NO: 43), SEELQCNKATL
   (SEQ ID NO: 44), PGILTCTWKAD (SEQ ID NO: 45), PITQGCEMTTP (SEQ ID NO: 46),
   TTPSKCSNNKY (SEQ ID NO: 47), PSKQSCNKYAA (SEQ ID NO: 48), HEGSTCEKTVA
   (SEQ ID NO: 49), and TCEKTCAPAEC (SEQ ID NO: 50).
10              In one additional aspect, the present invention provides a Surrobody, wherein the
   Surrobody comprises a surrogate light chain (SLC) having at least one amino acid residue at
   a predetermined amino acid position for conjugation to an agent. In one embodiment, the
   amino acid residue is located (i) at position 16 and/or 21 of a mature VpreB 1 sequence;
   and/or (ii) at one or more positions selected from the group consisting of 60, 74, 78, 79, 85,
15 91, 110, 123, 131, 133, 166, and 170 of a mature E sequence. In another embodiment, the
   amino acid residue is introduced into the amino acid sequence of the SLC polypeptide. In
   one other embodiment, the amino acid residue is introduced into the amino acid sequence of
   the SLC polypeptide by a substitution. In one embodiment, the introduced amino acid is a
   cysteine or a lysine.
20
                                       Brief Description of the Drawings
                The file of this patent contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this
   patent with color drawing(s) will be provided by the Patent and Trademark Office upon
   request and payment of the necessary fees.
25              Figure 1 depicts a SurrobodyTM as a Platform for Drug Conjugation.
                Figure 2 depicts Protein Conjugates: Surrobody Can Target Multiple Types and Sizes
   of Proteins to Specific Sites.
                Figure 3 depicts Site Directed Optimization of Invariant 2 Piece SLC for Drug
   Conjugation.
30              Figure 4 shows the human VpreB1 amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 with a
   native leader sequence; the mouse VpreB2 sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 2 and 3; the human
   VpreB3 -like sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4, the sequence of the truncated VpreB1 sequence in
   the "trimer" designated as "VpreB dTail" (SEQ ID NO: 5); and the human VpreB1 amino
                                                          7
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:6 with a murine Ig i4ea der sequence. Underlining indicates
   the leader sequences within the VpreB amino acid sequences.
                Figure 5 shows the murine 5 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7; the human X5 sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 8; the sequence of the truncated ?,5 sequence in the "trimer" designated in
 5 Figure 11 as "X5 dTail" (SEQ ID NO: 9); and the human X5 dTail sequence of SEQ ID NO:
    10 with a murine Ig i4eader sequence. Underlining indicates the leader sequences within the
   X5 amino acid sequences.
                Figure 6 shows human VpreB1-X5 chimeric amino acid sequences (SEQ ID NOS:35
   and          36) with a murine Ig i4eader sequence underlined.
10              Figures 7A and 7B show (A) the human VK-like nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID
   NO:1 1 and the amino acid sequence of the encoded protein (AJ004956; SEQ ID NO:12)
   (native leader sequence underlined), and (B) the predicted mature amino acid sequences of
   VK-like proteins possible from all Vifamilies, each b earing different lengths of extensions
   (SEQ ID NOS: 13-24) aligned with AJ004956 VK-like prototype sequence (residues 21-180
15 of SEQ ID NO:12).
                Figures 8A-C show (A) the human JCmiucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:25 and
   the amino acid sequence of the encoded protein (SEQ ID NO:26) (unique sequence compared
   to predicted mature JCk proteins is doubly underlined and potential leader cleavage sequence
   singly underlined), (B) the predicted JCK-like amino acid sequences from the remaining
20 kappa J-constant region rearrangements (J1-J5C(SEQ ID NOS: 27-31), and (C) the JCk
   engineered secretion optimized variants, including JCWith an appended murine Ig i4eader
   sequence underlined (SEQ ID NO:32), a recombined JCionly with an appended murine Ig                K
   leader sequence underlined (SEQ ID NO:33), and a predicted processed JCWith an
   appended murine Ig i4eader sequence underlined (SE           Q ID NO:34).
25              Figure 9 shows the results of an analysis of inhibition of cellular proliferation (in
   vitro) by Surrobody-drug conjugates.
                Figure 10 shows the % conjugation for a number of Surrobody-drug conjugates
   (bispecific and monospecific).
                Figure 11 A-B depicts (A) a number of Surrobody-drug conjugate constructs (bivalent,
30 bispecific, and monovalent), and (B) the results of an analysis of the conjugates for potency
   and for the ability to inhibit cell proliferation of cell lines with high receptor expression.
                                                        8
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   Figure 11 A (lower panel) depicts two monovalent Surrobody constructs (RI and R2),
   wherein part of the molecule is functionally null.
                Figure 12A-B shows the results of a serum stability analysis of (A) Surrobody-drug
   conjugates, and (B) HerceptinTM conjugates.
 5              Figure 13A-D shows the results of an aggregation analysis following concentration
   for (A-C) Surrobody constructs, and (B) HerceptinTM.
                Figure 14A-C shows various positions in a surrogate light chain amino acid sequences
   that are suitable for introduction of an amino acid (e.g., substitution). A: VpreB1 sequence;
   B: X sequence; and C: VpreB1 -X sequence. (SEQ ID NOS: 54 -56, respectively).
10              Figure 15A-B shows various surrogate light chain variants. A: SEQ ID NOS: 57-66,
   respectively, in order of appearance; B: SEQ ID NOS: 67-70, respectively, in order of
   appearance.
                                     Detailed Description of the Invention
                The present invention relates to methods for identifying, producing, and engineering
15 binding molecule conjugates, and to the conjugates produced. In particular, the invention
   concerns Surrobody conjugates composed of an antibody heavy chain variable domain and a
   surrogate light chain, wherein the the surrogate light chain and/or the heavy chain variable
   domain is conjugated to a therapeutic or diagnostic agent. The invention also concerns the
   polypeptide chains, nucleic acids, recombinant expression vectors, host cells, and methods
20 for making such binding molecule conjugates. Also provided are pharmaceutical
   compositions containing the molecules and therapeutic or diagnostic methods using the same.
                In one aspect, the present invention also contemplates a library or collection of
   polypeptides or peptides (e.g., and antibody heavy chain variable domain), sharing common
   structural elements (e.g., one or more framework regions) that can be manipulated to provide
25 additional sites for conjugation (e.g., a cysteine or lysine) to serve as scaffolds for added
   functionality across the entire subset of the collection sharing said structural elements. The
   library or collection may be an antibody or Surrobody library or collection. In one
   embodiment, the common structural elements suitable for manipulation may be in one or
   more of the framework regions of an antibody or Surrobody.
30              In another aspect, the present invention contemplates Surrobody conjugates where
   certain polypeptides are conjugated to an agent while other polypeptides are not conjugated
   to an agent. In one embodiment, the Surrobody conjugate comprises an antibody heavy chain
   variable domain that is not conjugated to an agent and a surrogate light chain that is
                                                        9
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   conjugated to an agent. In another embodiment, the Surrobody conjugate comprises an
   antibody heavy chain variable domain that is conjugated to an agent and a surrogate light
   chain that is not conjugated to an agent. In one other embodiment, the antibody heavy chain
   variable domain is conjugated to an agent in one or more of the framework regions (FRI
 5 FR4). Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are multiple additional areas
   for site specific optimization over monoclonal antibodies. Optimization will have likely
   provide broad application for whole classes of molecules due to conserved nature of
   surrogate light chains and restricted number of frameworks incorporated into a synthetic
   Surrobody library collection. For example, the following technologies may be applied: drug
10 conjugate (highly toxic small molecule); radioisotopes (chelated or pretargeted); targeted
   drug activation (e.g., ADEPT), and immunoliposomes or Immuno targeted nanoparticles
   (targeted). Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other suitable agents for
   conjugation according to the present invention.
                In one aspect, the present invention provides binding molecule conjugates. In one
15 embodiment, the binding molecule is an antibody or a SurrobodyTM. In another embodiment,
   the binding molecule conjugate comprises an antibody heavy chain variable domain, wherein
   binding molecule is conjugated to an agent. In one embodiment, the binding molecule
   further comprises a surrogate light chain (SLC). In one embodiment, the heavy chain
   variable domain is conjugated to the agent. In another embodiment, the SLC is conjugated to
20 the agent. In some embodiments, the binding molecule is conjugated to a therapeutic agent
   or to a diagnostic agent. In one other embodiment, the binding molecule is conjugated to the
   agent via a linker. In another embodiment, at least one amino acid residue of the binding
   molecule is conjugated to the agent. In some embodiments, the amino acid residue comprises
   a naturally occurring amino acid or a non-naturally occurring amino acid. In one other
25 embodiment, the therapeutic agent is an anti-cancer agent. In another embodiment, the
   diagnostic agent comprises a detectable label.
   A.           Definitions
                Unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
30 meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
   belongs. Singleton et al., Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology 2nd ed., J.
   Wiley & Sons (New York, NY 1994), provides one skilled in the art with a general guide to
   many of the terms used in the present application.
                                                       10
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or
   equivalent to those described herein, which could be used in the practice of the present
   invention. Indeed, the present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials
   described. For purposes of the present invention, the following terms are defined below.
 5              Throughout this application, the use of singular includes the plural unless expressly
   stated otherwise.
                In this application, the use of "or" includes "and/or", unless expressly stated
   otherwise.
                Furthermore, the terms, "include," "including," and "included," are not limiting.
10              In the claims which follow and in the description of the invention, except where the
   context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   ''comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition
   of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
15              In the context of the present invention, the term "antibody" (Ab) is used to refer to a
   native antibody from a classically recombined heavy chain derived from V(D)J gene
   recombination and a classically recombined light chain also derived from VJ gene
   recombination, or a fragment thereof.
                The term "binding molecule conjugate" in the broadest sense, is used to refer to a
20 binding molecule comprising an antibody heavy chain variable domain, wherein the binding
   molecule is conjugated to an agent. In one embodiment, the binding molecule further
   comprises a light chain sequence. In another embodiment, the light chain sequence is an
   antibody ?or i4ight chain sequence. In one embod           iment, the light chain sequence is a
   surrogate light chain sequence. In one other embodiment, the surrogate light chain sequence
25 comprises a VpreB sequence and/or a A sequence. In yet another embodiment, the surrogate
   light chain sequence comprises a VpreB sequence fused to a A sequence. In another
   embodiment, the surrogate light chain sequence is a K-like surrogate light chain (SLC)
   construct comprising a VK-like and/or a JCK sequence. In one embodiment, the binding
   molecule may be a Surrobody in which case the light chain sequence is a surrogate light
30 chain. The binding molecule may be an antibody in which the light chain sequence is a light
   chain variable domain.
                                                         11
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                The term "surrogate light chain polypeptide" or "SLC polypeptide" is used herein to
   refer to a VpreB polypeptide, a X5 polypeptide, a VK-like polypeptide, a JCK polypeptide,
   and variants thereof.
                The term "surrogate light chain sequence" or "SLC sequence" is used herein to refer
 5 to amino acid sequences from a native-sequence or variant VpreB polypeptide, a X5
   polypeptide, a VK-like polypeptide, and/or a JCK polypeptide. SLC sequences specifically
   include amino acid sequences from isoforms, including splice variants and variants formed
   by posttranslational modifications, other mammalian homologues thereof, as well as variants
   of one or more of such native sequence polypeptides.
10              The term "VpreB" is used herein in the broadest sense and refers to any native
   sequence or variant VpreB polypeptide, specifically including, without limitation, human
   VpreB1 of SEQ ID NO: 1, mouse VpreB2 of SEQ ID NOS: 2 and 3, human VpreB3-like
   sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4, human VpreB dT of SEQ ID NO:5 and isoforms, including
   splice variants and variants formed by posttranslational modifications, other mammalian
15 homologues thereof, as well as variants of such native sequence polypeptides.
                The term "X5" is used herein in the broadest sense and refers to any native sequence
   or variant k5 polypeptide, specifically including, without limitation, murine X5 sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 7, human X5 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8, and the human X5 dT shown as SEQ
   ID NO: 9, the human VpreB1 amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 10 and their isoforms,
20 including splice variants and variants formed by posttranslational modifications, other
   mammalian homologous thereof, as well a variants of such native sequence polypeptides.
                The terms "variant VpreB polypeptide" and "a variant of a VpreB polypeptide" are
   used interchangeably, and are defined herein as a polypeptide differing from a native
   sequence VpreB polypeptide at one or more amino acid positions as a result of an amino acid
25 modification. The "variant VpreB polypeptide," as defined herein, will be different from a
   native antibody A or K light chain sequence, or a fragment thereof. The "variant VpreB
   polypeptide" will preferably retain at least about 65%, or at least about 70%, or at least about
   75%, or at least about 80%, or at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, or at least about
   95%, or at least about 98% sequence identity with a native sequence VpreB polypeptide. In
30 another preferred embodiment, the "variant VpreB polypeptide" will be less than 95 %, or
   less than 90%, or less than 85%, or less than 80%, or less than     7 5 %, or less than 7 0%, or less
   than 65%, or less than 60% identical in its amino acid sequence to a native antibody X or K
                                                       12
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   light chain sequence. Variant VpreB polypeptides specifically include, without limitation,
   VpreB polypeptides in which the non-Ig-like unique tail at the C-terminus of the VpreB
   sequence is partially or completely removed.
                The terms "variant X5 polypeptide" and "a variant of a ?5 polypeptide" are used
 5 interchangeably, and are defined herein as a polypeptide differing from a native sequence k5
   polypeptide at one or more amino acid positions as a result of an amino acid modification.
   The "variant X5 polypeptide," as defined herein, will be different from a native antibody ? or
   ic  light chain sequence, or a fragment thereof. The "variant X5 polypeptide" will preferably
   retain at least about 65%, or at least about 70%, or at least about 75%, or at least about 80%,
10 or at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, or at least about 95%, or at least about 98%
   sequence identity with a native sequence k5 polypeptide. In another preferred embodiment,
   the "variant k5 polypeptide" will be less than 95%, or less than 90%, or less than 85%, or
   less than 80%, or less than       7 5 %, or less than 7 0%, or less than 65%, or less than 60%
   identical in its amino acid sequence to a native antibody k or          K light chain sequence. Variant
15 k5 polypeptides specifically include, without limitation, k5 polypeptides in which the unique
   tail at the N-terminus of the k5 sequence is partially or completely removed.
                The terms "variant VK-like polypeptide" and "a variant of a VK-like polypeptide" are
   used interchangeably, and are defined herein as a polypeptide differing from a native
   sequence VK-like polypeptide at one or more amino acid positions as a result of an amino
20 acid modification. The "variant VK-like polypeptide," as defined herein, will be different
   from a native antibody k or        K  light chain sequence, or a fragment thereof. The "variant VK
   like polypeptide" will preferably retain at least about 65%, or at least about 70%, or at least
   about 7 5 %, or at least about 80%, or at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, or at least
   about 95%, or at least about 98% sequence identity with a native sequence VK-like
25 polypeptide. In another preferred embodiment, the "variant VK-like polypeptide" will be less
   than 95%, or less than 90%, or less than 85%, or less than 80%, or less than 7 5%, or less than
   7 0% ,     or less than 65%, or less than 60% identical in its amino acid sequence to a native
   antibody k or K light chain sequence. Variant VK-like polypeptides specifically include,
   without limitation, VK-like polypeptides in which the non-Ig-like unique tail at the C
30 terminus of the VK-like sequence is partially or completely removed.
                The terms "variant JCK polypeptide" and "a variant of a JCIx polypeptide" are used
   interchangeably, and are defined herein as a polypeptide differing from a native sequence
                                                          13
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   JCK     polypeptide at one or more amino acid positions as a result of an amino acid
   modification. The "variant JCc polypeptide," as defined herein, will be different from a
   native antibody X or K light chain sequence, or a fragment thereof. The "variant JCK
   polypeptide" will preferably retain at least about 65%, or at least about 70%, or at least about
 5 75%, or at least about 80%, or at least about 85%, or at least about 90%, or at least about
   95%, or at least about 98% sequence identity with a native sequence JCi polypeptide. In
   another preferred embodiment, the "variant JCK polypeptide" will be less than 95%, or less
   than 90%, or less than 85%, or less than 80%, or less than 75%, or less than 7 0%, or less than
   65%, or less than 60% identical in its amino acid sequence to a native antibody k or K light
10 chain sequence. Variant JCK polypeptides specifically include, without limitation, JCK
   polypeptides in which the unique tail at the N-terminus of the JCK sequence is partially or
   completely removed.
                Percent amino acid sequence identity may be determined using the sequence
   comparison program NCBI-BLAST2 (Altschul et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 25:3389-3402
15 (1997)). The NCBI-BLAST2 sequence comparison program may be downloaded from
   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov or otherwise obtained from the National Institute of Health,
   Bethesda, MD. NCBI-BLAST2 uses several search parameters, wherein all of those search
   parameters are set to default values including, for example, unmask              = yes, strand = all,
   expected occurrences              = 10, minimum low complexity length     = 15/5, multi-pass e-value  =
20 0.01, constant for multi-pass            = 25, dropoff for final gapped alignment  = 25 and scoring
   matrix       =  BLOSUM62.
                The term "VpreB sequence" is used herein to refer to the sequence of "VpreB," as
   hereinabove defined, or a fragment thereof.
                The term "k5 sequence" is used herein to refers to the sequence of "k5," as
25 hereinabove defined, or a fragment thereof.
                The term "VK-like sequence" is used herein to refer to the sequence of "VK-like," as
   hereinabove defined, or a fragment thereof.
                The term "JCsequence" is used herein to refer to t he sequence of "JCf'as
   hereinabove defined, or a fragment thereof.
30              The term "X-like surrogate light chain," as used herein, refers to a dimer formed by
   the non-covalent association of a VpreB and a k5 protein.
                                                             14
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                The term "K-like surrogate light chain," as used herein, refers to a dimer formed by
   the non-covalent association of a VK-like and a JCiprotein.
                The term "X-like surrogate light chain sequence," as defined herein, means any
   polypeptide sequence that comprises a "VpreB sequence" and/or a "?,5 sequence," as
 5 hereinabove defined. The "X-like surrogate light chain sequence," as defined herein,
   specifically includes, without limitation, the human VpreB 1 sequence of SEQ ID NO 1, the
   mouse VpreB2 sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 2 and 3, and the human VpreB3 sequence of SEQ
   ID NO: 4, the human VpreB dT shown as SEQ ID NO: 5; and the human VpreB1 amino acid
   sequence of SEQ ID NO:6 and their various isoforms, including splice variants and variants
10 formed by post-translational modifications, homologues thereof in other mammalian species,
   as well as fragments and variants thereof. The term "X-like surrogate light chain sequence"
   additionally includes, without limitation, the murine X5 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7, the
   human 25 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8, the human X5 dTail shown as SEQ ID NO: 9, the
   human X5 dTail sequence of SEQ D NO: 10 and their isoforms, including splice variants and
15 variants formed by posttranslational modifications, homologues thereof in other mammalian
   species, as well as fragments and variants thereof. The term "k-like surrogate light chain
   sequence" additionally includes a sequence comprising both VpreB and k5 sequences as
   hereinabove defined.
                The term "K-like surrogate light chain sequence," as defined herein, means any
20 polypeptide sequence that comprises a "VK-like sequence" and/or a "JCIZ' as hereinabove
   defined. The "K-like surrogate light chain sequence," as defined herein, specifically includes,
   without limitation, the human VK-like sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 12-24, and their
   various isoforms, including splice variants and variants formed by posttranslational
   modifications, homologues thereof in other mammalian species, as well as fragments and
25 variants thereof. The term "K-like surrogate light chain sequence" additionally includes,
   without limitation, the human VK-like sequence of any of SEQ ID NOS: 12-24, the human
   JCsequence of any of SEQ ID NO:25 -35, and their isoforms, including splice variants and
   variants formed by posttranslational modifications, homologues thereof in other mammalian
   species, as well as fragments and variants thereof. The term "K-like surrogate light chain
30 sequence" additionally includes a sequence comprising both VK-like and JCsequ ences as
   hereinabove defined.
                                                       15
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                The term "surrogate light chain construct" is used in the broadest sense and includes
   any and all additional heterologous components, including a heterologous amino acid
   sequence, nucleic acid, and other molecules conjugated to a surrogate light chain sequence,
   wherein "conjugation" is defined below.
 5              A "surrogate light chain construct" is also referred herein as a "SurrobodyTM," or
   "Surrobody" and the two terms are used interchangeably. Certain SurrobodyTM -like
   surrogate light chain constructs are disclosed in Xu et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2008,
    105(31):10756-61 and in PCT Publication WO 2008/118970 published on October 2, 2008,
   the entire disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein. Also
10 contemplated are K-like surrogate light chain constructs as described in U.S. Patent
   Publication No. 2010-0062950, and Xu et al., J Mol. Biol. 2010, 397, 352-360, the entire
   disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein. In addition, Surrobodies
   comprising Stacked Variable Domains as described in PCT/US2012/044746 filed on June 28,
   2012, the entire disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.
15              In the context of the polypeptides of the present invention, the term "heterologous
   amino acid sequence," relative to a first amino acid sequence, is used to refer to an amino
   acid sequence not naturally associated with the first amino acid sequence, at least not in the
   form it is present in the surrogate light chain constructs herein. Thus, a "heterologous amino
   acid sequence" relative to a VpreB, k5, VK-like, or JCiis any amino acid sequence not
20 associated with native VpreB, k5, VK-like, or JCiin its native environment. These incl ude,
   without limitation, i) k5 sequences that are different from those k5 sequences that, together
   with VpreB, form the surrogate light chain on developing B cells, such as amino acid
   sequence variants, e.g. truncated and/or derivatized k5 sequences; ii) VpreB sequences that
   are different from those VpreB sequences that, together with X5, form the surrogate light
25 chain on developing B cells, such as amino acid sequence variants, e.g. truncated and/or
   derivatized VpreB sequences, iii) VK-like sequences that are different from those VK-like
   sequences that, together with JCcform the K -like surrogate light chain on developing B
   cells, such as amino acid sequence variants, e.g. truncated and/or derivatized VK-like
   sequences; and iv) JCsequences that are different          from those JCseque nces that, together
30 with VK-like, form the K-like surrogate light chain on developing B cells, such as amino acid
   sequence variants, e.g. truncated and/or derivatized JCsequences.
                                                        16
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                A "heterologous amino acid sequence" relative to a VpreB or k5 also includes VpreB
   or k5 sequences covalently associated with, e.g. fused to, a corresponding VpreB or k5,
   including native sequence VpreB or 25, since in their native environment, the VpreB and k5
   sequences are not covalently associated, e.g. fused, to each other. Similarly, a "heterologous
 5 amino acid sequence" relative to a VK-like or JCalso includes VK -like or JCSequences
   covalently associated with, e.g. fused to, a corresponding VK-like or JCrincluding native
   sequence VK-like or JCysince in their native environment, the VK-like or JCsequences are
   not covalently associated, e.g. fused, to each other.
                A "heterologous amino acid sequence" relative to a VpreB or VK-like also includes
10 VpreB or VK-like sequences covalently associated with, e.g. fused to, a sequence providing
   additional functionality (e.g., a cytokine or antibody fragment amino acid sequence), or any
   fragment or variant thereof, since in their native environment, the VpreB or VK-like and the
   sequence providing additional functionality are not covalently associated, e.g. fused, to each
   other. The antibody fragment amino acid sequence may be a single chain variable fragment
15 (scFv).
                Heterologous amino acid sequences also include, without limitation, antibody
   sequences, including antibody and heavy chain sequences and fragments or variants thereof,
   such as, for example, antibody light and heavy chain variable region sequences, and antibody
   light and heavy chain constant region sequences.
20              The terms "conjugate," "conjugated," and "conjugation" refer to any and all forms of
   covalent or non-covalent linkage, and include, without limitation, direct genetic or chemical
   fusion, coupling through a linker or a cross-linking agent, and non-covalent association, for
   example through Van der Waals forces, or by using a leucine zipper. In the present
   invention, conjugation particuarly refers to the linkage of a therapeutic or diagnostic agent to
25 a polypeptide that is part of a binding molecule, such as a Surrobody or antibody.
                The term "flexible linker" is used herein to refer to any linker that is not predicted,
   based on its chemical structure, to be fixed in three-dimensional space in its intended context
   and environment.
                The term "fusion" is used herein to refer to the combination of amino acid sequences
30 of different origin in one polypeptide chain by in-frame combination of their coding
   nucleotide sequences. The term "fusion" explicitly encompasses internal fusions, i.e.,
   insertion of sequences of different origin within a polypeptide chain, in addition to fusion to
   one of its termini.
                                                       17
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                As used herein, the terms "peptide," "polypeptide" and "protein" all refer to a primary
   sequence of amino acids that are joined by covalent "peptide linkages." In general, a peptide
   consists of a few amino acids, typically from about 2 to about 50 amino acids, and is shorter
   than a protein. The term "polypeptide," as defined herein, encompasses peptides and
 5 proteins.
                A "native antibody" is heterotetrameric glycoprotein of about 150,000 daltons,
   composed of two identical light (L) chains and two identical heavy (H) chains. Each light
   chain is linked to a heavy chain by covalent disulfide bond(s), while the number of disulfide
   linkages varies between the heavy chains of different immunoglobulin isotypes. Each heavy
10 and light chain also has regularly spaced intrachain disulfide bridges. Each heavy chain has,
   at one end, a variable domain (VH) followed by a number of constant domains. Each light
   chain has a variable domain at one end (VL) and a constant domain at its other end; the
   constant domain of the light chain is aligned with the first constant domain of the heavy
   chain, and the light chain variable domain is aligned with the variable domain of the heavy
15 chain. Particular amino acid residues are believed to form an interface between the light- and
   heavy-chain variable domains, Chothia et al., J Mol. Biol. 186:651 (1985); Novotny and
   Haber, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 82:4592 (1985).
                The term "variable" with reference to antibody chains is used to refer to portions of
   the antibody chains which differ extensively in sequence among antibodies and participate in
20 the binding and specificity of each particular antibody for its particular antigen. Such
   variability is concentrated in three segments called hypervariable regions both in the light
   chain and the heavy chain variable domains. The more highly conserved portions of variable
   domains are called the framework region (FR). The variable domains of native heavy and
   light chains each comprise four FRs (FRI, FR2, FR3 and FR4, respectively), largely adopting
25 a p-sheet configuration, connected by three hypervariable regions, which form loops
   connecting, and in some cases forming part of, the p-sheet structure. The hypervariable
   regions in each chain are held together in close proximity by the FRs and, with the
   hypervariable regions from the other chain, contribute to the formation of the antigen-binding
   site of antibodies (see Kabat et al., Sequences ofProteins ofImmunological Interest, 5th Ed.
30 Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md. (1991), pages 647-669).
   The constant domains are not involved directly in binding an antibody to an antigen, but
   exhibit various effector functions, such as participation of the antibody in antibody-dependent
   cellular toxicity.
                                                       18
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                The term "hypervariable region" when used herein refers to the amino acid residues of
   an antibody which are responsible for antigen-binding. The hypervariable region comprises
   amino acid residues from a "complementarity determining region" or "CDR" (i.e., residues
   30-36 (LI), 46-55 (L2) and 86-96 (L3) in the light chain variable domain and 30-35 (HI), 47
 5 58 (H2) and 93-101 (H3) in the heavy chain variable domain; MacCallum et al,. JMol Biol.
   262(5):732-45 (1996).
                The term "framework region" refers to the art recognized portions of an antibody
   variable region that exist between the more divergent CDR regions. Such framework regions
   are typically referred to as frameworks I through 4 (FRI, FR2, FR3, and FR4) and provide a
10 scaffold for holding, in three-dimensional space, the three CDRs found in a heavy or light
   chain antibody variable region, such that the CDRs can form an antigen-binding surface.
                Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains,
   antibodies can be assigned to different classes. There are five major classes of antibodies
   IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, and several of these may be further divided into subclasses
15 (isotypes), e.g., IgGi, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, and IgA2. In a preferred embodiment, the
   immunoglobulin sequences used in the construction of the immunoadhesins of the present
   invention are from an IgG immunoglobulin heavy chain domain. For human
   immunoadhesins, the use of human IgGI and IgG3 immunoglobulin sequences is preferred.
   A major advantage of using the IgGI is that IgGI immunoadhesins can be purified efficiently
20 on immobilized protein A. However, other structural and functional properties should be
   taken into account when choosing the Ig fusion partner for a particular immunoadhesin
   construction. For example, the IgG3 hinge is longer and more flexible, so that it can
   accommodate larger "adhesin" domains that may not fold or function properly when fused to
   IgGi. Another consideration may be valency; IgG immunoadhesins are bivalent homodimers,
25 whereas Ig subtypes like IgA and IgM may give rise to dimeric or pentameric structures,
   respectively, of the basic Ig homodimer unit. For VEGF receptor Ig-like
   domain/immunoglobulin chimeras designed for in vivo applications, the pharmacokinetic
   properties and the effector functions specified by the Fc region are important as well.
   Although IgGi, IgG2 and IgG4 all have in vivo half-lives of 21 days, their relative potencies
30 at activating the complement system are different. Moreover, various immunoglobulins
   possess varying numbers of allotypic isotypes.
                The heavy-chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of
   immunoglobulins are called phyand [t, respec            tively.
                                                     19
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                The "light chains" of antibodies from any vertebrate species can be assigned to one of
   two clearly distinct types, called kappa (ic) and lambda (Q),based on the amino acid
   sequences of their constant domains. Any reference to an antibody light chain herein
   includes both ic and ?, light chains.
 5              "Antibody fragments" comprise a portion of a full length antibody, generally the
   antigen binding or a variable domain thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include, but
   are not limited to, Fab, Fab,' F(ab)     2, scFv, and (scFv) 2 fragments.
                As used herein the term "antibody binding region" refers to one or more portions of
   an immunoglobulin or antibody variable region capable of binding an antigen(s). Typically,
10 the antibody binding region is, for example, an antibody light chain (VL) (or variable region
   thereof), an antibody heavy chain (VH) (or variable region thereof), a heavy chain Fd region,
   a combined antibody light and heavy chain (or variable region thereof) such as a Fab, F(ab' ),
   single domain, or single chain antibody (scFv), or a full length antibody, for example, an IgG
   (e.g., an IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4 subtype), IgAl, IgA2, IgD, IgE, or IgM antibody.
15              The term "epitope" as used herein, refers to a sequence of at least about 3 to 5,
   preferably at least about 5 to 10, or at least about 5 to 15 amino acids, and typically not more
   than about 500, or about 1,000 amino acids, which define a sequence that by itself, or as part
   of a larger sequence, binds to an antibody generated in response to such sequence. An
   epitope is not limited to a polypeptide having a sequence identical to the portion of the parent
20 protein from which it is derived. Indeed, viral genomes are in a state of constant change and
   exhibit relatively high degrees of variability between isolates. Thus the term "epitope"
   encompasses sequences identical to the native sequence, as well as modifications, such as
   deletions, substitutions and/or insertions to the native sequence. Generally, such
   modifications are conservative in nature but non-conservative modifications are also
25 contemplated. The term specifically includes "mimotopes," i.e. sequences that do not
   identify a continuous linear native sequence or do not necessarily occur in a native protein,
   but functionally mimic an epitope on a native protein. The term "epitope" specifically
   includes linear and conformational epitopes.
                The term "amino acid" or "amino acid residue" typically refers to an amino acid
30 having its art recognized definition such as an amino acid selected from the group consisting
   of: alanine (Ala); arginine (Arg); asparagine (Asn); aspartic acid (Asp); cysteine (Cys);
   glutamine (Gln); glutamic acid (Glu); glycine (Gly); histidine (His); isoleucine (Ile): leucine
   (Leu); lysine (Lys); methionine (Met); phenylalanine (Phe); proline (Pro); serine (Ser);
                                                       20
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   threonine (Thr); tryptophan (Trp); tyrosine (Tyr); and valine (Val) although modified,
   synthetic, or rare amino acids may be used as desired. Thus, modified and unusual amino
   acids listed in 37 CFR 1.822(b)(4) are specifically included within this definition and
   expressly incorporated herein by reference. Amino acids can be subdivided into various sub
 5 groups. Thus, amino acids can be grouped as having a nonpolar side chain (e.g., Ala, Cys,
   Ile, Leu, Met, Phe, Pro, Val); a negatively charged side chain (e.g., Asp, Glu); a positively
   charged side chain (e.g., Arg, His, Lys); or an uncharged polar side chain (e.g., Asn, Cys,
   Gln, Gly, His, Met, Phe, Ser, Thr, Trp, and Tyr). Amino acids can also be grouped as small
   amino acids (Gly, Ala), nucleophilic amino acids (Ser, His, Thr, Cys), hydrophobic amino
10 acids (Val, Leu, Ile, Met, Pro), aromatic amino acids (Phe, Tyr, Trp, Asp, Glu), amides (Asp,
   Glu), and basic amino acids (Lys, Arg).
                The term "Stacked Variable Domain," or "SVD," in the broadest sense, is used to
   refer to tandem arrangements in which variable domain sequences from two different sources
   are conjugated to each other. In one embodiment, the conjugation takes place by direct
15 fusion. In another embodiment, the conjugation is provided by covalent linkage through a
   linker sequence, such as, for example, a short peptide sequence. The reference to two
   different sources does not mean, however, that the variable domain sequence have to be
   obtained from the source from which they derive. The variable domain sequences and the
   tandem arrangements can be produced by any means, such as recombinant methods and/or
20 chemical synthesis. The terms "Stacked Variable Domain" or "SVD" specifically include
   multi-specific (e.g. bispecific, trispecific, etc.) Surrobody- or antibody-based polypeptides
   comprising at least one "outer binding domain" and at least one "inner binding domain", each
   specifically binding to a different target. The term specifically includes bispecific,
   trispecific, and other multi-specific constructs, where the variable domains may be present
25 ("stacked") in a single polypeptide chain ("single-chain stacked variable domains") or two or
   more polypeptide chains. Thus, the terms specifically include, without limitation,
   monomeric, dimeric and tetrameric structures, and monovalent bispecific and bivalent
   bispecific structures. Stacked Variable Domains are further described in
   PCT/US2012/044746 filed on June 28, 2012 (the contents of which are each incorporated
30 herein by reference in their entirety).
                The term "polynucleotide(s)" refers to nucleic acids such as DNA molecules and
   RNA molecules and analogs thereof (e.g., DNA or RNA generated using nucleotide analogs
   or using nucleic acid chemistry). As desired, the polynucleotides may be made synthetically,
                                                      21
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   e.g., using art-recognized nucleic acid chemistry or enzymatically using, e.g., a polymerase,
   and, if desired, be modified. Typical modifications include methylation, biotinylation, and
   other art-known modifications. In addition, the nucleic acid molecule can be single-stranded
   or double-stranded and, where desired, linked to a detectable moiety.
 5              The term "variant" with respect to a reference polypeptide refers to a polypeptide that
   possesses at least one amino acid mutation or modification (i.e., alteration) as compared to a
   native polypeptide. Variants generated by "amino acid modifications" can be produced, for
   example, by substituting, deleting, inserting and/or chemically modifying at least one amino
   acid in the native amino acid sequence.
10              An "amino acid modification" refers to a change in the amino acid sequence of a
   predetermined amino acid sequence. Exemplary modifications include an amino acid
   substitution, insertion and/or deletion.
                An "amino acid modification at" a specified position, refers to the substitution or
   deletion of the specified residue, or the insertion of at least one amino acid residue adjacent
15 the specified residue. By insertion "adjacent" a specified residue is meant insertion within
   one to two residues thereof. The insertion may be N-terminal or C-terminal to the specified
   residue.
                An "amino acid substitution" refers to the replacement of at least one existing amino
   acid residue in a predetermined amino acid sequence with another different "replacement"
20 amino acid residue. The replacement residue or residues may be "naturally occurring amino
   acid residues" (i.e. encoded by the genetic code) and selected from the group consisting of:
   alanine (Ala); arginine (Arg); asparagine (Asn); aspartic acid (Asp); cysteine (Cys);
   glutamine (Gln); glutamic acid (Glu); glycine (Gly); histidine (His); isoleucine (Ile): leucine
   (Leu); lysine (Lys); methionine (Met); phenylalanine (Phe); proline (Pro); serine (Ser);
25 threonine (Thr); tryptophan (Trp); tyrosine (Tyr); and valine (Val). Substitution with one or
   more non-naturally occurring amino acid residues is also encompassed by the definition of an
   amino acid substitution herein.
                A "non-naturally occurring amino acid residue" refers to a residue, other than those
   naturally occurring amino acid residues listed above, which is able to covalently bind
30 adjacent amino acid residues(s) in a polypeptide chain. Examples of non-naturally occurring
   amino acid residues include norleucine, omithine, norvaline, homoserine and other amino
   acid residue analogues such as those described in Ellman et al. Meth. Enzym. 202:301 336
   (1991). To generate such non-naturally occurring amino acid residues, the procedures of
                                                       22
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   Noren et al. Science 244:182 (1989) and Ellman et al., supra, can be used. Briefly, these
   procedures involve chemically activating a suppressor tRNA with a non-naturally occurring
   amino acid residue followed by in vitro transcription and translation of the RNA.
                An "amino acid insertion" refers to the incorporation of at least one amino acid into a
 5 predetermined amino acid sequence. While the insertion will usually consist of the insertion
   of one or two amino acid residues, the present application contemplates larger "peptide
   insertions", e.g. insertion of about three to about five or even up to about ten amino acid
   residues. The inserted residue(s) may be naturally occurring or non-naturally occurring as
   disclosed above.
10              An "amino acid deletion" refers to the removal of at least one amino acid residue from
   a predetermined amino acid sequence.
                The term "mutagenesis" refers to, unless otherwise specified, any art recognized
   technique for altering a polynucleotide or polypeptide sequence. Preferred types of
   mutagenesis include error prone PCR mutagenesis, saturation mutagenesis, or other site
15 directed mutagenesis.
                "Site-directed mutagenesis" is a technique standard in the art, and is conducted using
   a synthetic oligonucleotide primer complementary to a single-stranded phage DNA to be
   mutagenized except for limited mismatching, representing the desired mutation. Briefly, the
   synthetic oligonucleotide is used as a primer to direct synthesis of a strand complementary to
20 the single-stranded phage DNA, and the resulting double-stranded DNA is transformed into a
   phage-supporting host bacterium. Cultures of the transformed bacteria are plated in top agar,
   permitting plaque formation from single cells that harbor the phage. Theoretically, 50% of
   the new plaques will contain the phage having, as a single strand, the mutated form; 50% will
   have the original sequence. Plaques of interest are selected by hybridizing with kinased
25 synthetic primer at a temperature that permits hybridization of an exact match, but at which
   the mismatches with the original strand are sufficient to prevent hybridization. Plaques that
   hybridize with the probe are then selected, sequenced and cultured, and the DNA is
   recovered.
                The term "vector" is used to refer to a rDNA molecule capable of autonomous
30 replication in a cell and to which a DNA segment, e.g., gene or polynucleotide, can be
   operatively linked so as to bring about replication of the attached segment. Vectors capable
   of directing the expression of genes encoding for one or more polypeptides are referred to
   herein as "expression vectors. "The term "control sequences" refers to DNA sequences
                                                        23
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   necessary for the expression of an operably linked coding sequence in a particular host
   organism. The control sequences that are suitable for prokaryotes, for example, include a
   promoter, optionally an operator sequence, and a ribosome binding site. Eukaryotic cells are
   known to utilize promoters, polyadenylation signals, and enhancers. A vector may be a
 5 "plasmid" referring to a circular double-stranded DNA loop into which additional DNA
   segments may be ligated. A vector may be a phage vector or a viral vector, in which
   additional DNA segements may be ligated into the viral genome. Suitable vectors are
   capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced, e.g., bacterial
   vector with a bacterial origin or replication and episomal mammalian vectors. A vector may
10 be integrated into the host cell genome, e.g., a non-episomal mammalian vector, upon
   introduction into the host cell, and replicated along with the host genome.
                Nucleic acid is "operably linked" when it is placed into a functional relationship with
   another nucleic acid sequence. For example, DNA for a presequence or secretory leader is
   operably linked to DNA for a polypeptide if it is expressed as a preprotein that participates in
15 the secretion of the polypeptide; a promoter or enhancer is operably linked to a coding
   sequence if it affects the transcription of the sequence; or a ribosome binding site is operably
   linked to a coding sequence if it is positioned so as to facilitate translation. Generally,
   "operably linked" means that the DNA sequences being linked are contiguous, and, in the
   case of a secretory leader, contiguous and in reading phase. However, enhancers do not have
20 to be contiguous. Linking is accomplished by ligation at convenient restriction sites. If such
   sites do not exist, the synthetic oligonucleotide adaptors or linkers are used in accordance
   with conventional practice.
                A "phage display library" is a protein expression library that expresses a collection of
   cloned protein sequences as fusions with a phage coat protein. Thus, the phrase "phage
25 display library" refers herein to a collection of phage (e.g., filamentous phage) wherein the
   phage express an external (typically heterologous) protein. The external protein is free to
   interact with (bind to) other moieties with which the phage are contacted. Each phage
   displaying an external protein is a "member" of the phage display library.
                The term "filamentous phage" refers to a viral particle capable of displaying a
30 heterogeneous polypeptide on its surface, and includes, without limitation, fl, fd, Pfl, and
   M13. The filamentous phage may contain a selectable marker such as tetracycline (e.g., "fd
   tet"). Various filamentous phage display systems are well known to those of skill in the art
                                                       24
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   (see, e.g., Zacher et al. Gene 9: 127-140 (1980), Smith et al. Science 228: 1315-1317 (1985);
   and Parmley and Smith Gene 73: 305-318 (1988)).
                The term "panning" is used to refer to the multiple rounds of screening process in
   identification and isolation of phages carrying compounds, such as antibodies, with high
 5 affinity and specificity to a target.
                A "leader sequence," "signal peptide," or a "secretory leader," which terms are used
   interchangeably, contains a sequence comprising amino acid residues that directs the
   intracellular trafficking of the polypeptide to which it is a part. Polypeptides contain
   secretory leaders, signal peptides or leader sequences, typically at their N-terminus. These
10 polypeptides may also contain cleavage sites where the leader sequences may be cleaved
   from the rest of the polypeptides by signal endopeptidases. Such cleavage results in the
   generation of mature polypeptides. Cleavage typically takes place during secretion or after
   the intact polypeptide has been directed to the appropriate cellular compartment.
                A "host cell" includes an individual cell or cell culture which can be or has been a
15 recipient for transformation of nucleic acid(s) and/or vector(s) containing nucleic acids
   encoding the molecules described herein. In methods of the present invention, a host cell can
   be a eukaryotic cell, such as a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell, or a human embryonic
   kidney (HEK) 293 cell. Other suitable host cells are known to those skilled in the art.
   B.           Detailed Description
20              Techniques for performing the methods of the present invention are well known in the
   art and described in standard laboratory textbooks, including, for example, Ausubel et al.,
   Current Protocols of Molecular Biology, John Wiley and Sons (1997); Molecular Cloning: A
   Laboratory Manual, Third Edition, J. Sambrook and D. W. Russell, eds., Cold Spring Harbor,
   New York, USA, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, 2001; 0' Brian et al.,Analytical
25 Chemistry of Bacillus Thuringiensis, Hickle and Fitch, eds., Am. Chem. Soc., 1990; Bacillus
   thuringiensis: biology, ecology and safety, T.R. Glare and M. 0' Callaghan, eds., John Wiley,
   2000; Antibody Phage Display, Methods and Protocols, Humana Press, 2001; and
   Antibodies, G. Subramanian, ed., Kluwer Academic, 2004. Mutagenesis can, for example,
   be performed using site-directed mutagenesis (Kunkel et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA
30 82:488-492 (1985)). PCR amplification methods are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,683,192,
   4,683,202, 4,800,159, and 4,965,188, and in several textbooks including "PCR Technology:
                                                       25
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   Principles and Applications for DNA Amplification", H. Erlich, ed., Stockton Press, New
   York (1989); and PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications, Innis et al., eds.,
   Academic Press, San Diego, Calif. (1990).
                The present invention provides binding molecules conjugated to an agent, which may
 5 be a therapeutic or diagnostic agent. In one aspect, the binding molecule conjugate
   comprises a surrogate light chain (SLC). In another aspect, the binding molecule conjugate is
   based upon antibodies or Surrobodies.
                1.             Surrogate Light Chains (SLCs)
                Surrobody constructs are based on the pre-B cell receptor (pre-BCR), which is
10 produced during normal development of an antibody repertoire. Unlike antibodies, pre-BCR
   is a trimer, that is composed of an antibody heavy chain paired with two surrogate light chain
   components, VpreB and X5. Both VpreB and X5 are encoded by genes that do not undergo
   gene rearrangement and are expressed in early pro-B cells before V(D)J recombination
   begins. The pre-BCR is structurally different from a mature immunoglobulin in that it is
15 composed of a heavy chain and two non-covalently associated proteins: VpreB and k5, i.e.,
   they have three components as opposed to two in antibodies. Furthermore, although VpreB
   is homologous to the VX Ig domain, and ?5 is homologous to the C             domain of antibodies,
   each has noncanonical peptide extensions: VpreB1 has additional 21 residues on its C
   terminus; X5 has a 50 amino acid extension at its N terminus.
20              Similarly, the K-like surrogate light chain constructs described herein are based on the
   pre-B cell receptor (pre-BCR). The i-like light chain is the germline VKIV gene partnered
   with a JCK fusion gene. In each of these genes a peptidic extension exists in the vicinity
   surrounding a site analogous for CDR3. As these two proteins do not appear to recombine at
   the genomic level it is likely their association to a heavy chain are mutually exclusive of each
25 other and analogous to the associations described for the X-like surrogate light chain.
                Further details of the design and production of Surrobodies are provided in Xu et al.,
   Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2008, 105(31):10756-61 and in PCT Publications WO
   2008/118970, published on October 2, 2008; WO/2010/006286, published on January 1,
   2010; WO/2010/151808, published on December 29, 2010, WO/2011/071957 published on
30 June 16, 2011; and PCT/US2012/044746 filed on June 28, 2012 (the contents of which are
   each incorporated herein by reference in their entirety).
                                                          26
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                                     () A-like surrogate light chains
                The present invention contemplates Surrobody conjugates comprising surrogate light
   chains that have a VpreB sequence conjugated to a k5 sequence. Figure 1 depicts a
 5 SurrobodyTM as a platform for conjugation, which takes advantage of the invariant Surrogate
   Light Chain (SLC) partner as a candidate site(s) for consistent conjugation. Two invariant
   proteins: lambda (R) and VpreB make up the Surrog ate Light Chain, which can be utilized
   by SurrobodiesTM as two native proteins with endogenous "tails" ready for conjugation ("3
   piece) or with the two proteins fused together into single protein ("2 piece") (Figure 1). In
10 addition, the Surrobody library is a synthetic library with constrained frameworks made up of
   4 possible combinations. Conserved framework regions also provide candidate site(s) for
   consistent conjugation.
                Figure 2 illustrates, in general, how a Surrobody can target multiple types and sizes of
   proteins to specific sites. Multiple proteins have been conjugated to various components of
15 the SLC with high fidelity including, without limitation, immunoproteins (e.g., IL-2 at 16
   kDa), bispecific immune recruitment (e.g., CD3), medium to large proteins (e.g., FGF21 at
   20 kDa, scFv Abs at 25 kDa - influenza virus antibody and VEGF, and Fab constructs), and
   small proteins (e.g., bioactive proteins such as GLP-1 and Exendin-1 at ~6kDa).
                The present invention relates to additional areas for specific optimization of
20 conjugation in SurrobodieTM components. Such optimization has the potential for a variety
   of applications due to the conserved nature of SLC and restricted number of frameworks
   derived from a synthetic collection. One important area of application is the formation of
   SurrobodyTM-drug conjugates. Figure 3A depicts an example of site directed optimization of
   an invariant 2-piece SLC for drug conjugation. Once favorable sites are identified on the
25 SLC (e.g., series of possible cysteine, lysine, or other single or multiple chemical
   substitutions in SLC constructs), they can can be used for subsequent SurrobodiesTM (Figure
   3B).
                In one embodiment, the VpreB sequence is selected from the group consisting of a
   native VpreB 1 sequence, a native VpreB2 sequence, a native VpreB3 sequence and
30 fragments and variants thereof. In one other embodiment, the native VpreB sequence is
   selected from the group consisting of human VpreB 1 of SEQ ID NO: 1, mouse VpreB2 of
   SEQ ID NOS: 2 and 3, human VpreB3 of SEQ ID NO: 4, VpreB-like polypeptide of SEQ ID
   NO:5, human VpreB dTail polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:6 and fragments and variants thereof.
                                                             27
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   In other embodiments, the k5 sequence comprises all or part of a murine k5 of SEQ ID NO:
   7; a human k5 polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 8, or a human k5 dTail polypeptide of SEQ ID
   NO:9.
                The main isoform of human VpreB1 (CAG30495) is a 145 amino acid long
 5 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 1 in Figure 4), including a 19 amino acid leader sequence. Similar
   leader sequences are present in other VpreB polypeptides. The human truncated VpreB1
   sequence (lacking the characteristic "tail" at the C-terminus of native VpreB1), is also
   referred to as the "VpreB1 dTail sequence" and shown as SEQ ID NO:5.
                The main isoform of murine k5 (CAA10962) is a 209-amino acid polypeptide (SEQ
10 ID NO:7), including a 30 amino acid leader sequence. A human k5-like protein has 213
   amino acids (NP_064455; SEQ ID NO: 8) and shows about 84% sequence identity to the
   antibody k light chain constant region. Similar leader sequences are present in other k5
   polypeptides. The human truncated 25 sequence (lacking the characteristic "tail" at the N
   terminus of native k5), is also referred to as the "k5 dTail sequence" and shown as SEQ ID
15 NO:9.
                In one other embodiment, the invention provides binding molecule conjugates that
   contain an SLC construct comprising a VpreB sequence shown as SEQ ID NO:6. In another
   embodiment, the invention provides an SLC construct comprising a 25 sequence shown as
   SEQ ID NO: 10. In one embodiment, the SLC construct comprises a polypeptide shown as
20 SEQ ID NO:35.
                Specific examples of -like Surrobodies include polypeptides in which a VpreB
   sequence, such as a VpreB 1, VpreB2, or VpreB3 sequence, including fragments and variants
   of the native sequences, is conjugated to a k5 sequence, including fragments and variants of
   the native sequence. Representative fusions of this type are provided in PCT Publication WO
25 2008/118970 published on October 2, 2008; WO/2010/006286 published on January 14,
   2010; WO/2010/151808 published on December 29, 2010; PCT/US2012/044746 filed June
   28, 2012 (the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their
   entirety). An example of a fusion with a heterologous leader sequence is illustrated in Figure
   6 (SEQ ID NOS: 35 and 36). In a direct fusion, typically the C-terminus of a VpreB
30 sequence (e.g. a VpreB1, VpreB2 or VpreB3 sequence) is fused to the N-terminus of a k5
   sequence. While it is possible to fuse the entire length of a native VpreB sequence to a full
   length k5 sequence, typically the fusion takes place at or around a CDR3 analogous site in
                                                     28
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   each of the two polypeptides. In this embodiment, the fusion may take place within, or at a
   location within about 10 amino acid residues at either side of the CDR3 analogous region. In
   a preferred embodiment, the fusion takes place between about amino acid residues 116-126
   of the native human VpreB1 sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) and between about amino acid
 5 residues 82 and 93 of the native human k5 sequence (SEQ ID NO: 8).
                As noted above, in addition to direct fusions, the polypeptide constructs of the present
   invention include non-covalent associations of a VpreB sequence (including fragments and
   variants of a native sequence) with a heterologous sequence, such as a k5 sequence
   (including fragments and variants of the native sequence), and/or an antibody sequence.
10 Thus, for example, a full-length VpreB sequence may be non-covalently associated with a
   truncated k5 sequence. Alternatively, a truncated VpreB sequence may be non-covalently
   associated with a full-length k5 sequence.
                Surrogate light chain constructs comprising non-covalently associated VpreB1 and k5
   sequences, in association with an antibody heavy chain. The association may be covalent
15 and/or non-covalent. The structures may include, for example, full-length VpreB1 and ?5
   sequences, a full-length VpreB 1 sequence associated with a truncated 25 sequence ("Lambda
   5dT"), a truncated VpreB1 sequence associated with a full-length k5 sequence (VpreB dT")
   and a truncated VpreB1 sequence associated with a truncated 25 sequence ("Short").
                One of ordinary skill will appreciate that a variety of other constructs can be made
20 and used in a similar fashion. For example, the structures can be asymmetrical, comprising
   different surrogate light chain sequences in each arm, and/or having trimeric or pentameric
   structures.
                All surrogate light chain constructs (Surrobodies) herein may be associated with
   antibody sequences. For example, a polypeptide comprising one or more VpreB-X5 fusions
25 can be linked to an antibody heavy chain variable region sequence by a peptide linker. In
   another embodiment, a VpreB-X5 fusion is non-covalently associated with an antibody heavy
   chain, or a fragment thereof including a variable region sequence to form a dimeric complex.
   In yet another embodiment, the VpreB and k5 sequences are non-covalently associated with
   each other and an antibody heavy chain, or a fragment thereof including a variable region
30 sequence, thereby forming a trimeric complex.
                In one embodiment, the invention provides an SLC construct wherein the k5
   sequence is non-covalently associated with the VpreB sequence. In one other embodiment,
                                                       29
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   the invention contemplates an SLC construct wherein the conjugate of said VpreB sequence
   and X5 sequence is non-covalently associated with an antibody heavy chain sequence.
                The present invention also contemplates SLC constructs wherein a X5 sequence and a
   VpreB sequence are connected by a covalent linker. In one embodiment, the invention
 5 provides an SLC construct wherein the 25 sequence is non-covalently associated with the
   VpreB sequence. In one other embodiment, the invention contemplates an SLC construct
   wherein the conjugate of said VpreB sequence and X5 sequence is non-covalently associated
   with an antibody heavy chain sequence.
                The binding molecule conjugates of the present invention, including those based upon
10 multispecific Surrobody molecules, may contain VpreB/X5 conjugates. The VpreB/X5
   conjugates may be SLC polypeptides that are fusions. Exemplary sequences suitable for use
   in VpreB1 (SEQ ID NO: 1) / X5 (SEQ ID NO: 8) conjugates include, without limitation,
   VpreB1(20-121), X5 (93-213), X5 (93-107), and k5 (93-108).
15                                   (ii) K-like surrogate light chains
                Specific examples of K-like Surrobodies include polypeptides in which a VK-like
   sequence, including fragments and variants of the native sequences, is conjugated to a JCK
   sequence, including fragments and variants of the native sequence. Representative fusions of
   this type are illustrated in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2001-0062950, and Xu et al., J Mol.
20 Biol. 2010, 397, 352-360, the entire disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by
   reference herein.
                Various heterodimeric surrogate          K light chain deletion variants may be used as
   surrogage light chains. In the "full length" construct, both the VK-like and JCK sequence
   retains the C- and N-terminal extensions (tails), respectively. In the dJ variant, the N
25 terminal extension of JCK has been deleted. In the dVK tail variants, the C-terminal
   extension of the VK-like sequence had been removed but the N-terminal extension of JCK is
   retained. In the "short kappa" variant, both the C-terminal tail of the VK-like sequence and
   the N-terminal extension of the JCi sequence are retained. Single chain constructs may be
   made between the full length sequences and any of the deletion variants in any combination,
30 e.g., full length single chain, full length VK-like and dJ single chain, full length JCi and dVK,
   etc.
                                                              30
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                Specific examples of the polypeptide constructs herein include polypeptides in which
   a VK-like and/or JCK sequence is associated with an antibody heavy chain, or a fragment
   thereof. In the K-like surrogate light chain constructs of the present invention, the VK-like
   polypeptide and/or the JCK polypeptide may contain the C- and N-terminal extensions,
 5 respectively, that are not present in similar antibody sequences. Alternatively, part or whole
   of the extension(s) can be removed from the K-like surrogate light chain constructs herein.
                Other K-like surrogate light chain constructs, which can be used individually or can be
   further derivatized and/or associated with additional heterologous sequences, such as
   antibody heavy chain sequences, such as a full-length antibody heavy chain or a fragment
10 thereof.
                While the C- and N-terminal extensions of the VK-like polypeptide and/or the JCK
   polypeptide do not need to be present in the constructs of the present invention, it is
   advantageous to retain at least a part of at least one of such appendages, because they provide
   a unique opportunity to create combinatorial functional diversity, either by linear extensions
15 or, for example, in the form of constrained diversity, as a result of screening loop libraries, as
   described in WO/2010/006286 published on January 14, 2010 and incorporated herein by
   reference in its entirety. In addition, the "tail" portions of the VK-like polypeptide and/or the
   JCK polypeptide can be fused to other peptides and/or polypeptides, to provide for various
   desired properties, such as, for example, enhanced binding, additional binding specificities,
20 enhanced pK, improved half-life, reduced half-life, cell surface anchoring, enhancement of
   cellular translocation, dominant negative activities, etc. Specific functional tail extensions
   are further discussed in WO/2010/151808 published on December 29, 2010 and incorporated
   herein by reference in its entirety.
                If desired, the constructs of the present invention can be engineered, for example, by
25 incorporating or appending known sequences or sequence motifs from the CDR1, CDR2
   and/or CDR3 regions of antibodies, including known therapeutic antibodies into the CDR1,
   CDR2 and/or CDR3 analogous regions of the K-like surrogate light chain sequences. This
   allows the creation of molecules that are not antibodies, but will exhibit binding specificities
   and affinities similar to or superior over those of a known therapeutic antibody.
30              As VK-like and the JCK genes encode polypeptides that can function as independent
   proteins and function as surrogate light chains, surrogate-like light chains can be engineered
   from true light chains and be used in every previous application proposed for engineered true
                                                        31
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   surrogate light chains. This can be accomplished by expressing the variable light region to
   contain a peptidic extension analogous to either the VpreB or VK-like gene. Similarly the
   constant region can be engineered to resemble either the A or JC        K genes and their peptidic
   extensions. Furthermore any chimeras or heterodimeric partnered combinations are within
 5 the scope herein.
                In one other aspect, the present invention contemplates multispecific Surrobody
   molecules comprising surrogate light chain (SLC) domains that have K-like SLC
   polypeptides. In one embodiment, the K-like SLC polypeptide comprises a VK-like sequence
   and/or a JCsequence. In another embodiment, the VK -like sequence is selected from the
10 group consisting of SEQ ID NOS: 12-24, and fragments and variants thereof. In one other
   embodiment, the JCsequence is selected from the g roup consisting of SEQ ID NOS:26-39,
   and fragments and variants thereof. The K-like SLC domain may be a VK -like sequence
   conjugated to a JCsequence. The conjugate may be a fusion. In another embodiment, the
   fusion takes place at or around the CDR3 analogous regions of said VK-like sequence and
15 said JCsequence respectively. In one embodiment, the invention contemplates a K-like
   SLC construct, wherein said VK-like sequence and said JCseq uence are connected by a
   covalent linker.
                In one embodiment, the invention provides a K-like SLC construct, wherein said VK
   like sequence is non-covalently associated with said JCsequence. In o ne embodiment, the
20 invention provides a K-like SLC construct wherein the conjugate of said VK-like sequence
   and JCsequence is non -covalently associated with an antibody heavy chain sequence.
                2.             Multispecific Stacked Variable Domain (SVD) binding molecule
   coniuates
25              In one aspect, the binding molecule conjugated described herein are based upon
   stacked variable domain (SVD) Surroglobulin structures, as described in
   PCT/US2012/044746 filed June 28, 2012 (the entire disclosure of which are incorporated by
   reference herein in its entirety). The agents, e.g., therapeutic and diagnostic agents, described
   herein may be attached to a surrogate light chain region that is part of an SVD structure via
30 the linker strategies described herein.
                SVD Surroglobulin structures are heteromeric binding proteins designed such that
   two domains from two different parental Surrobodies are covalently linked in tandem directly
   or via a designed linker. Specifically the first component of the complex is the tandem
                                                           32
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   product of a heavy chain variable domain (VH) of the first surrobody and the surrogate light
   chain domain of a second surrobody linked together, which is intended to create the "outer"
   binding domain. The second component of the SVD complex is the tandem product of a
   surrogate light chain domain of the first surrobody and the heavy chain variable domain (VH)
 5 of a second surrobody linked together, which is intended to create the "inner" binding
   domain. This second component may be followed by a constant domain sequence ( e.g.
   CHI) and, if desired, an Fc region to enable avid binding to both specificities. The two
   components, though typically single polypeptides, can be individual dimeric proteins. The
   agents, e.g., therapeutic and diagnostic agents, described herein may be attached to at least
10 one surrogate light chain domain or region via the linker strategies described herein.
                In another aspect, the binding molecule conjugates are based upon SVD molecules
   that utilize different antibody heavy chain constant domain region sequences. In one
   embodiment, the heavy chain constant domain sequence comprises a sequence selected from
   the group consisting of: a CHI sequence, a CH2 sequence, a CH3 sequence, a CHI and a
15 CH3 sequence, a CH2 and a CH3 sequence, an Fc region, as well as any functionally active
   fragment thereof.
                In another embodiment, the invention concerns a binding molecule conjugate based
   upon an SVD Surroglobulin structure, comprising a single chain product of a heavy chain
   variable domain (VH) of a first surrobody linked to its cognate surrogate light chain that is
20 intended to create the "outer" binding domain, which is in turn linked to the surrogate light
   chain of a second surrobody. In this embodiment, the second component of the SVD
   complex is the heavy chain variable domain (VH) of a second surrobody, which is intended
   to create the "inner" binding domain. This second heavy chain may be followed by the
   constant domain (CH1) and if desired the Fc region for avid binding to both each distinct
25 binding target. In this embodiment, the first binding domain specificity is created as a single
   chain construct fused to the surrogate light chain of a second binding specificity to restore
   native binding affinities of a parental Surroglobulin (SgG). However, if the second binding
   domain maintains native binding affinities in the presence of a fusion on the N-terminus then
   it is also possible to fuse the single chain construct with a similar effect. The agents, e.g.,
30 therapeutic and diagnostic agents, described herein may be attached to at least one surrogate
   light chain domain or region via the linker strategies described herein.
                                                      33
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                Furthermore it is possible to fuse distinct single chain binding domains to both the
   amino terminus of the surrogate light chain and the amino terminus of the heavy chain to
   create a trispecific, avid heteromeric binding protein.
                In yet another embodiment, a panel of SVD-SgG molecules are created, composed of
 5 combinations of heavy chain variable (VH) domains of neutralizing surroglobulins and
   combinatorial linker diversity to identify combinations with potentiated or additional activity.
   The beneficial combination have the potential to be generated into a more potent agent, as
   well as a more consistent product than a cocktail admixture of biologics, such as antibodies.
                In another example of targeting a single molecule a single heavy chain variable
10 domain (VH) is used for each of the four binding sites of an SVD-SgG construct, to create a
   molecule that is capable of either binding stoichiometrically larger amounts of target or
   creating higher order clusters of the targeted protein.
                The multispecific stacked variable domain (SVD) binding molecules, as defined
   herein, contain different polypeptide components. The present invention contemplates the
15 use of fragments of these polypeptide components, in particular, functional fragments. The
   term "fragment" refers to a portion of a polypeptide or sequence described herein, generally
   comprising at least the region involved in binding a target and/or in association with another
   polypeptide or sequence. A "functional fragment, " as defined herein, is a portion of a
   polypeptide or sequence which has a qualitative biological activity in common with the
20 original (reference) polypeptide or sequence. Thus, for example, a fragment of a surrogate
   light chain (SLC) polypeptide or sequence may be a functional fragment, which comprises at
   least a minimum sequence length required for retaining a qualitative biological activity of the
   SLC polypeptide or sequence. For example, the functional fragment may retain the
   qualitative ability to bind a target either alone or in combination with another polypeptide,
25 e.g., an antibody heavy chain variable region sequence, and/or the ability to associate with
   another polypeptide, e.g., an antibody heavy chain constant region. The agents, e.g.,
   therapeutic and diagnostic agents, described herein may be attached to at least one surrogate
   light chain domain or region via the linker strategies described herein.
                These and further embodiments are illustrated in the Examples and associated Figures
30 of PCT/US2012/044746 filed June 28, 2012 (the entire disclosure of which are incorporated
   by reference herein in its entirety). For example, agents may be attached to an SLC region or
   domain as shown in (i) a bispecific Surrobody structure (Figure 1A of PCT/US2012/044746);
   (ii) a multispecific/bispecific single chain based Surrobody (scSv) structure (Figure IB-1E of
                                                        34
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   PCT/US2012/044746); (iii) a monomeric monovalent binder or bivalent avid binder
   Surrobody structure (Figure 17 of PCT/US2012/044746); (iv) a bispecific monomeric SVD
   Surrobody structure (Figure 18 of PCT/US2012/044746); (v) a trispecific SVD Surrobody
   structure; or (vi) a "Cross-complement" SVD Surrobody structure. In one embodiment, the
 5 present invention contemplates binding molecule conjugates that comprise an SLC
   polypeptide having an agent attached to any suitable amino acid residue of the SLC amino
   acid sequences depicted in Figures 10 and 11 of Figure 18 of PCT/US2012/044746 filed June
   28, 2012 (the entire disclosure of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety).
10              3.             Functionally null moeities
                In another aspect, the present invention provides binding molecule conjugates that
   comprise a funtionally null moiety. It has been found that the pharmacokinetic properties of
   biologically active moieties, such as peptides and polypeptides, or associated peptidic and
   non-peptidic molecules, can be modulated by conjugation to a functionally null scaffold.
15 Thus, for example, the in vivo half-lives of rapidly clearing peptides and polypeptides, or
   secondarily associated peptidic and non-peptidic molecules, can be extended by conjugation
   to a longer half-life functionally null scaffold, such as, for example, a functionally null
   antibody, SurrobodyTM, or other scaffold comprising a functionally null binding region, such
   as an AdnectinTM (hereinafter referred to as "Adnectin"), Domain AntibodyTM (hereinafter
20 referred to as "Domain Antibody" or "dAB"), DARPin, anti-calin, Affibody, or fragments
   thereof.
                In one aspect, the present invention concerns binding molecule conjugates that
   comprise a first moiety conjugated to a second moiety, wherein the second moiety is a
   scaffold comprising one or more functionally null binding regions conjugated to and capable
25 of modulating at least one pharmacokinetic property of the first moiety. In another aspect,
   the present invention concerns binding molecule conjugates that comprise a fusion molecule,
   wherein the fusion molecule comprises a first moiety and a second moiety, wherein said
   second moiety comprises one or more functionally null binding regions fused to and capable
   of modulating at least one pharmacokinetic property of the first moiety. In some
30 embodiments, the first moiety is a peptide or a polypeptide. The peptide or polypeptide may
   be a biologically active moiety. In yet another embodiment, the biologically active moiety
   and the scaffold or moiety comprising one or more functionally null binding regions are
   fused to each other.
                                                          35
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                In other embodiments, the scaffold or moiety comprising one or more functionally
   null binding regions may, for example, be selected from the group consisting of antibodies,
   Adnectins, Domain Antibodies (Dabs), DARPins, anti-calins, Affibodies, and fragments
   thereof. Thus, the scaffold or moiety comprising one or more functionally null binding
 5 regions may be an antibody or an antibody fragment, or a Surrobody or a fragment thereof.
                In another embodiment, the fuctionally null moieties that make up part of the binding
   molecule conjugates are based upon antibodies. Such antibodies are created from germline
   heavy and light chains from a combination of unmutated "V-J" light chain and unmutated
   "V-D-J" genes to encode the null antibody polypeptides. As most binding is dictated by the
10 heavy chain CDR3 region, the possibility of binding to any foreign or non-foreign target can
   be further reduced by removing the D-region or using a designed minimal D-region in
   creating the null antibody. Further engineering or additional deletions of portions of the V
   and J regions are possible to further reinforce nonreactivitiy. Similar strategies can be
   applied to produce functionally null Surrobodies and other moieties with functionally null
15 binding regions.
                Funtionally null moieites are further described in WO/2011/071957 published on June
    16, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                4.             Binding molecule coniugates comprising SLCs
20              The present invention is directed to binding molecule conjugates comprising a
   surrogate light chain, or fragment thereof, linked or conjugated to a drug or prodrug (also
   referred to herein as Surrobody conjugates). Suitable drugs or prodrugs are known in the art.
   The drugs or prodrugs can be cytotoxic agents. The cytotoxic agent used in the cytotoxic
   conjugate of the present invention can be any compound that results in the death of a cell, or
25 induces cell death, or in some manner decreases cell viability, and includes, for example,
   maytansinoids and maytansinoid analogs. Other suitable cytotoxic agents are for example
   benzodiazepines, taxoids, CC-1065 and CC-1065 analogs, duocarmycins and duocarmycin
   analogs, enediynes, such as calicheamicins, dolastatin and dolastatin analogs including
   auristatins, tomaymycin derivatives, leptomycin derivaties, methotrexate, cisplatin,
30 carboplatin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, vincristine, vinblastine, melphalan, mitomycin C,
   chlorambucil and morpholino doxorubicin.
                Such conjugates can be prepared by using a linking group in order to link a drug or
   prodrug to the surrogate light chain. Suitable linking groups are well known in the art and
                                                          36
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   include, for example, disulfide groups, thioether groups, acid labile groups, photolabile
   groups, peptidase labile groups and esterase labile groups.
                The drug or prodrug can, for example, be linked to the surrogate light chain (SLC), or
   fragment thereof, through a disulfide bond. The linker molecule or crosslinking agent
 5 comprises a reactive chemical group that can react with the SLC or fragment thereof. The
   reactive chemical groups for reaction with the surrogate light chain can be N-succinimidyl
   esters and N-sulfosuccinimidyl esters. Additionally the linker molecule comprises a reactive
   chemical group, which can be a dithiopyridyl group that can react with the drug to form a
   disulfide bond. Linker molecules include, for example, N-succinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithio)
10 propionate (SPDP) (see, e.g., Carlsson et al., Biochem. J., 173: 723-737 (1978)), N
   succinimidyl 4-(2-pyridyldithio)butanoate (SPDB) (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,563,304), N
   succinimidyl 4-(2-pyridyldithio)-2-sulfobutanoate (sulfo-SPDB) (see US Publication No.
   20090274713), N-succinimidyl 4-(2-pyridyldithio) pentanoate (SPP) (see, e.g., CAS Registry
   number 341498-08-6), 2-iminothiolane, or acetylsuccinic anhydride. For example, the SLC,
15 or fragment thereof, can be modified with crosslinking reagents and the SLC, or fragment
   thereof, containing free or protected thiol groups thus derived is then reacted with a disulfide
   or thiol-containing maytansinoid to produce conjugates. The conjugates can be purified by
   chromatography, including but not limited to HPLC, size-exclusion, adsorption, ion exchange
   and affinity capture, dialysis or tangential flow filtration.
20              In another aspect of the present invention, the surrogate light chain (SLC) , or
   fragment thereof, is linked to cytotoxic drugs via disulfide bonds and a polyethylene glycol
   spacer in enhancing the potency, solubility or the efficacy of the conjugate. Such cleavable
   hydrophilic linkers are described in W02009/0134976. The additional benefit of this linker
   design is the desired high monomer ratio and the minimal aggregation of the conjugate.
25 Specifically contemplated in this aspect are conjugates of SLCs, or a fragment thereof, and
   drugs linked via disulfide group (--S--S--) bearing polyethylene glycol spacers ((CH 2CH 20)
   n=1-14) with a narrow range of drug load of 2-8 are described that show relatively high potent
   biological activity toward cancer cells and have the desired biochemical properties of high
   conjugation yield and high monomer ratio with minimal protein aggregation.
30              Binding molecule conjugates with non-cleavable linkers can also be prepared. Such
   crosslinkers are described in the art (see US Publication No. 20050169933) and include but
   are not limited to, N-succinimidyl 4-(maleimidomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylate (SMCC). In
   some embodiments, a surrogagte light chain (SLC), or fragment thereof, is modified with
                                                       37
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   crosslinking reagents such as succinimidyl 4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1
   carboxylate (SMCC), sulfo-SMCC, maleimidobenzoyl-N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (MBS),
   sulfo-MBS or succinimidyl-iodoacetate, as described in the literature, to introduce 1-10
   reactive groups (Yoshitake et al, Eur. J. Biochem., 101:395-399 (1979); Hashida et al, J.
 5 Applied Biochem., 56-63 (1984); and Liu et al, Biochem., 18:690-697 (1979)). The modified
   SLC, or fragment thereof, is then reacted with the thiol-containing maytansinoid derivative to
   produce a conjugate. The conjugate can be purified by gel filtration through a Sephadex G25
   column or by dialysis or tangential flow filtration. The modified binding molecules are
   treated with the thiol-containing maytansinoid (I to 2 molar equivalent/maleimido group) and
10 conjugates are purified by gel filtration through a Sephadex G-25 column, chromatography
   on a ceramic hydroxyapatite column, dialysis or tangential flow filtration or a combination of
   methods thereof. Typically, an average of 1-10 maytansinoids per binding molecule are
   linked. One method is to modify an SLC, or fragment thereof, with succinimidyl 4-(N
   maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (SMCC) to introduce maleimido groups
15 followed by reaction of the modified SLC, or fragment thereof, with a thiol-containing
   maytansinoid to give a thioether-linked conjugate. Again conjugates with 1 to 10 drug
   molecules per binding molecule result.
                In another aspect of the invention, the surrogate light chain (SLC), or fragment
   thereof, is linked to the drug via a non-cleavable bond through the intermediacy of a PEG
20 spacer. Suitable crosslinking reagents comprising hydrophilic PEG chains that form linkers
   between a drug and the SLC, or fragment thereof, are also well known in the art, or are
   commercially available (for example from Quanta Biodesign, Powell, Ohio). Suitable PEG
   containing crosslinkers can also be synthesized from commercially available PEGs
   themselves using standard synthetic chemistry techniques known to one skilled in the art.
25 The drugs can be reacted with bifunctional PEG-containing cross linkers to give compounds
   of the following formula, Z--X 1 --(--CH 2 --CH 2--O--),--Yp-D, by methods described in detail
   in US Patent Publication 20090274713 and in W02009/0134976, which can then react with
   the SLC, or fragment thereof, to provide a conjugate.
                Alternatively, the cell binding can be modified with the bifunctional PEG crosslinker
30 to introduce a thiol-reactive group (such as a maleimide or haloacetamide) which can then be
   treated with a thiol-containing maytansinoid to provide a conjugate. In another method, the
   cell binding can be modified with the bifunctional PEG crosslinker to introduce a thiol
                                                        38
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   moiety which can then be treated with a thiol-reactive maytansinoid (such as a maytansinoid
   bearing a maleimide or haloacetamide), to provide a conjugate.
                The present invention includes aspects wherein about 2 to about 8 drug molecules
   ("drug load"), for example, maytansinoid, are linked to a surrogate light chain (SLC) or
 5 fragment thereof, the anti-tumor effect of the conjugate is much more efficacious as
   compared to a drug load of a lesser or higher number of drugs linked to the same SLC or
   fragment thereof. "Drug load", as used herein, refers to the number of drug molecules (e.g., a
   maytansinoid) that can be attached to a binding molecule (e.g., an SLC or fragment thereof).
   In one aspect the number of drug molecules that can be attached to a cell binding agent can
10 average from about 2 to about 8 (e.g., 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0,
   3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, 5.1,
   5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.8, 6.9, 7.0, 7.1, 7.2,
   7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 8.0, 8.1). N 2'-deacetyl-N 2'-(3-mercapto-1-oxopropyl)
   maytansine (DM1) and N 2'-deacetyl-N 2 '-(4-mercapto-4-methyl- 1-oxopentyl) maytansine
15 (DM4) can be used.
                The surrogate light chain (SLC) or fragment thereof can be modified by reacting a
   bifunctional crosslinking reagent with the SLC or fragment thereof, thereby resulting in the
   covalent attachment of a linker molecule to the SLC or fragment thereof. As used herein, a
   "bifunctional crosslinking reagent" is any chemical moiety that covalently links an SLC or
20 fragment thereof to a drug, such as the drugs described herein. In another method, a portion
   of the linking moiety is provided by the drug. In this respect, the drug comprises a linking
   moiety that is part of a larger linker molecule that is used to join the SLC or fragment thereof
   to the drug. For example, to form the maytansinoid DM1, the side chain at the C-3 hydroxyl
   group of maytansine is modified to have a free sulfhydryl group (SH). This thiolated form of
25 maytansine can react with a modified SLC or fragment thereof to form a conjugate.
   Therefore, the final linker is assembled from two components, one of which is provided by
   the crosslinking reagent, while the other is provided by the side chain from DM1.
                The drug molecules can also be linked to the surrogate light chain (SLC) or fragment
   thereof through an intermediary carrier molecule such as serum albumin.
30              As used herein, the expression "linked to a surrogate light chain or fragment thereof'
   or "linked to an SLC or fragment thereof' refers to the binding molecule conjugate
   comprising at least one drug derivative bound to an SLC or fragment thereof via a suitable
   linking group, or a precursor thereof. One linking group is SMCC.
                                                       39
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                In certain embodiments, cytotoxic agents useful in the present invention are
   maytansinoids and maytansinoid analogs. Examples of suitable maytansinoids include esters
   of maytansinol and maytansinol analogs. Included are any drugs that inhibit microtubule
   formation and that are highly toxic to mammalian cells, as are maytansinol and maytansinol
 5 analogs.
                Examples of suitable maytansinol esters include those having a modified aromatic
   ring and those having modifications at other positions. Such suitable maytansinoids are
   disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,424,219; 4,256,746; 4,294,757; 4,307,016; 4,313,946;
   4,315,929; 4,331,598; 4,361,650; 4,362,663; 4,364,866; 4,450,254; 4,322,348; 4,371,533;
10 5,208,020; 5,416,064; 5,475,092; 5,585,499; 5,846,545; 6,333,410; 7,276,497 and 7,473,796.
                In a certain embodiment, the binding molecule conjugates of the invention utilize the
   thiol-containing maytansinoid (DM1), formally termed N 2 '-deacetyl-N 2 '-(3-mercapto-1
   oxopropyl)-maytansine; the thiol-containing maytansinoid N 2'-deacetyl-N 2 '(4-methyl-4
   mercapto-1-oxopentyl)-maytansine (e.g., DM4); or a maytansinoid comprising a side chain
15 that contains a sterically hindered thiol bond is N 2'-deacetyl-N 2 '(4-mercapto-1-oxopentyl)
   maytansine (termed DM3), as the cytotoxic agent.
                Each of the maytansinoids taught in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,208,020 and 7,276,497, can also
   be used in the conjugate of the present invention. In this regard, the entire disclosure of
   5,208,020 and 7,276,697 is incorporated herein by reference.
20              Many positions on maytansinoids can serve as the position to chemically link the
   linking moiety. For example, the C-3 position having a hydroxyl group, the C-14 position
   modified with hydroxymethyl, the C-15 position modified with hydroxy and the C-20
   position having a hydroxy group are all expected to be useful. In some embodiments, the C-3
   position serves as the position to chemically link the linking moiety, and in some particular
25 embodiments, the C-3 position of maytansinol serves as the position to chemically link the
   linking moiety.
                Several descriptions for producing such polypeptide-maytansinoid conjugates are
   provided in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,333,410, 6,441,163, 6,716,821, and 7,368,565, each of which is
   incorporated herein in its entirety.
30              In general, a solution containing a surrogate light chain (SLC) or fragment thereof in
   aqueous buffer can be incubated with a molar excess of maytansinoids having a disulfide
   moiety that bears a reactive group. The reaction mixture can be quenched by addition of
                                                        40
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   excess amine (such as ethanolamine, taurine, etc.). The maytansinoid conjugate can then be
   purified by gel filtration.
                The number of maytansinoid molecules bound per binding molecule can be
   determined by measuring spectrophotometrically the ratio of the absorbance at 252 nm and
 5 280 nm. The average number of maytansinoid molecules/binding molecule can be, for
   example, 1-10 or 2-5.
                Anthracycline compounds, as well as derivatives, intermediates and modified
   versions thereof, can also be used to prepare binding molecules of the present invention. For
   example, doxorubicin, doxorubicin derivatives, doxorubicin intermediates, and modified
10 doxorubicins can be used in binding molecule conjugates. Exemplary compounds are
   described in WO 2010/009124, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                Conjugates comprising a surrogate light chain (SLC) or fragment thereof with
   maytansinoid or other drugs can be evaluated for their ability to suppress proliferation of
   various unwanted cell lines in vitro. For example, cell lines such NCI-H226, NCI-H292, and
15 NCI-H322M, can easily be used for the assessment of cytotoxicity of these compounds. Cells
   to be evaluated can be exposed to the conjugates for 4 to 5 days and the surviving fractions of
   cells measured in direct assays by known methods. IC 50 values can then be calculated from
   the results of the assays.
                Preferred cross-linking reagents that form non-cleavable linkers between the
20 maytansinoid and the binding molecule comprise a maleimido- or haloacetyl-based moiety.
   According to the present invention, such non-cleavable linkers are said to be derived from
   maleimido- or haloacetyl-based moiety. Cross-linking reagents comprising a maleimido
   based moiety include N-succinimidyl 4-(maleimidomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylate (SMCC),
   N-succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxy-(6-amidocaproa-              te), which
25 is a "long chain" analog of SMCC (LC-SMCC), K-maleimidoundecanoic acid N-succinimidyl
   ester (KMUA), y-maleimidobutyric acid N-succinimidyl ester (GMBS), c-maleimidocaproic
   acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (EMCS), m-maleimidobenzoyl-N-hydroxysuccinimide
   ester (MBS), N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy)-succinimide ester [AMAS], succinimidyl-6-(p
   maleimidopropionamido)hexanoate (SMPH), N-succinimidyl 4-(p-maleimidophenyl)
30 butyrate (SMPB), and N-(p-maleimidophenyl)isocyanate (PMPI). These cross-linking
   reagents form non-cleavable linkers derived from maleimido-based moieties.
                Cross-linking reagents comprising a haloacetyl-based moiety include N-succinimidyl
   4-(iodoacetyl)-aminobenzoate (SIAB), N-succinimidyl iodoacetate (SIA), N-succinimidyl
                                                       41
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   bromoacetate (SBA) and N-succinimidyl 3-(bromoacetamido)propionate (SBAP). These
   cross-linking reagents form non-cleavable linkers derived from haloacetyl-based moieties.
                Additional agents and linkers suitable for use in the present invention are provided in
   U.S. 20120156217; U.S. 8198417; and U.S. 20120294853, the entire disclosures of which are
 5 incorporated by reference herein in their entirety).
                Surrobody-Drug Conjugate Compounds
                The present invention provides, inter alia, binding molecule-drug conjugates for
   targeted delivery of drugs. The inventors have made the discovery that the binding molecule
10 drug conjugates comprising a surrogate light chain (SLC) or fragment thereof have
   advantageous therapeutic properties including, without limitation, potent cytotoxic activity,
   serum stability, a high percentage of drug conjugation, and reduced aggregation following
   concentration .
                In one aspect, the conjugates comprise an SLC unit covalently linked to at least one
15 Drug unit. The Drug units can be covalently linked directly or via a Linker unit (-L-). In
   some embodiments, the conjugate has the following formula:
                SLC-(L-D)p           (I)
                or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof; wherein:
20              SLC is the surrogate light chain or fragment thereof unit, and
                (L-D) is a Linker unit-Drug unit moiety, wherein:
                L- is a Linker unit, and
                D is a drug unit; and
                p is an integer from 1 to about 20.
25              In some embodiments, p ranges from I to 10, 1 to 9, 1 to 8, 1 to 7, 1 to 6, 1 to 5, 1 to
   4, 1 to 3, or I to 2. In some embodiments, p ranges from 2 to 10, 2 to 9, 2 to 8, 2 to 7, 2 to 6,
   2 to 5, 2 to 4 or 2 to 3. In other embodiments, p is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6. In some embodiments, p
   is 2 or 4.
                In some embodiments, the conjugate has the following formula:
30
                SLC-(Aa-W-Yy-D)p         (II)
                or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof;
                wherein:
                                                       42
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                SLC is the surrogate light chain or fragment thereof unit; and
                -Aa-Ww-Yy- is a Linker unit (LU), wherein:
                -A- is a Stretcher unit,
                a is 0 or 1,
 5              each -W- is independently an Amino Acid unit,
                w is an integer ranging from 0 to 12,
                -Y- is a self-immolative spacer unit,
                y is 0, 1 or 2;
                -D is a drug unit; and
10              p is an integer from 1 to about 20.
                In some embodiments, a is 0 or 1, w is 0 or 1, and y is 0, 1 or 2. In some
   embodiments, a is 0 or 1, w is 0 or 1, and y is 0 or 1. In some embodiments, p ranges from 1
   to 10, 1 to 9, 1 to 8, 1 to 7, 1 to 6, 1 to 5, 1 to 4, 1 to 3, or I to 2. In some embodiments, p
15 ranges from 2 to 8,2 to 7,2 to 6,2 to 5,2 to 4 or 2 to 3.Inother embodiments,p is1, 2,3,4,
   5 or 6. In some embodiments, p is 2 or 4. In some embodiments, when w is not zero, y is I or
   2. In some embodiments, when w is I to 12, y is I or 2. In some embodiments, w is 2 to 12
   and y is I or 2. In some embodiments, a is I and w and y are 0.
                The drug loading is represented by p, the average number of drug molecules per
20 binding molecule comprising an SLC or fragment thereof. Drug loading may range from I to
   20 drugs (D) per binding molecule. The average number of drugs per binding molecule in
   preparation of conjugation reactions may be characterized by conventional means such as
   mass spectroscopy, ELISA assay, and HPLC. The quantitative distribution of the conjugates
   in terms of p may also be determined. In some instances, separation, purification, and
25 characterization of homogeneous conjugates where p is a certain value from the conjugates
   with other drug loadings may be achieved by means such as reverse phase HPLC or
   electrophoresis. In exemplary embodiments, p is from 2 to 8.
                The generation of the binding molecule-drug conjugate can be accomplished by any
   technique known to the skilled artisan. Briefly, the conjugate compounds comprise a binding
30 molecule comprising a surrogate light chain (SLC) or fragment thereof as the SLC unit, a
   drug, and optionally a linker that joins the drug and the binding molecule. A number of
   different reactions are available for covalent attachment of drugs and/or linkers to binding
   agents. This is often accomplished by reaction of the amino acid residues of the binding
                                                       43
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   molecule, e.g., SLC or fragment thereof, including the amine groups of lysine, the free
   carboxylic acid groups of glutamic and aspartic acid, the sulfhydryl groups of cysteine and
   the various moieties of the aromatic amino acids. One of the most commonly used non
   specific methods of covalent attachment is the carbodiimide reaction to link a carboxy (or
 5 amino) group of a compound to amino (or carboxy) groups of a polypeptide molecule.
   Additionally, bifunctional agents such as dialdehydes or imidoesters have been used to link
   the amino group of a compound to amino groups of a polypeptide molecule. Also available
   for attachment of drugs to binding agents is the Schiff base reaction. This method involves
   the periodate oxidation of a drug that contains glycol or hydroxy groups, thus forming an
10 aldehyde which is then reacted with the binding molecule. Attachment occurs via formation
   of a Schiff base with amino groups of the binding molecule. Isothiocyanates can also be used
   as coupling agents for covalently attaching drugs to binding molecules. Other techniques are
   known to the skilled artisan and within the scope of the present invention.
                In certain embodiments, an intermediate, which is the precursor of the linker, is
15 reacted with the drug under appropriate conditions. In certain embodiments, reactive groups
   are used on the drug and/or the intermediate. The product of the reaction between the drug
   and the intermediate, or the derivatized drug, is subsequently reacted with the binding
   molecule under appropriate conditions.
                Each of the particular units of the conjugate compounds is described in more detail
20 herein. The synthesis and structure of exemplary linker units, stretcher units, amino acid
   units, self-immolative spacer unit, and drug units are also described in U.S. Patent
   Application Publication Nos. 2003-0083263, 2005-0238649 and 2005-000975 1, each if
   which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.
25              Linker Units
                Typically, the binding molecule-drug conjugates comprise a linker region between the
   drug unit and the SLC unit. In some embodiments, the linker is cleavable under intracellular
   conditions, such that cleavage of the linker releases the drug unit from the binding molecule
   in the intracellular environment. In yet other embodiments, the linker unit is not cleavable
30 and the drug is released, for example, by degradation of the binding molecule.
                In some embodiments, the linker is cleavable by a cleaving agent that is present in the
   intracellular environment (e.g., within a lysosome or endosome or caveolea). The linker can
   be, e.g., a peptidyl linker that is cleaved by an intracellular peptidase or protease enzyme,
                                                        44
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   including, but not limited to, a lysosomal or endosomal protease. In some embodiments, the
   peptidyl linker is at least two amino acids long or at least three amino acids long. Cleaving
   agents can include cathepsins B and D and plasmin, all of which are known to hydrolyze
   dipeptide drug derivatives resulting in the release of active drug inside target cells (see, e.g.,
 5 Dubowchik and Walker, 1999, Pharm. Therapeutics 83:67-123). Most typical are peptidyl
   linkers that are cleavable by enzymes that are present in cells. For example, a peptidyl linker
   that is cleavable by the thiol-dependent protease cathepsin-B, which is highly expressed in
   cancerous tissue, can be used (e.g., a Phe-Leu or a Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly linker (SEQ ID NO:
   51)). Other examples of such linkers are described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. No. 6,214,345,
10 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. In a specific
   embodiment, the peptidyl linker cleavable by an intracellular protease is a Val-Cit linker or a
   Phe-Lys linker (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 6,214,345, which describes the synthesis of
   doxorubicin with the val-cit linker). One advantage of using intracellular proteolytic release
   of the therapeutic agent is that the agent is typically attenuated when conjugated and the
15 serum stabilities of the conjugates are typically high.
                In other embodiments, the cleavable linker is pH-sensitive, i.e., sensitive to hydrolysis
   at certain pH values. Typically, the pH-sensitive linker hydrolyzable under acidic conditions.
   For example, an acid-labile linker that is hydrolyzable in the lysosome (e.g., a hydrazone,
   semicarbazone, thiosemicarbazone, cis-aconitic amide, orthoester, acetal, ketal, or the like)
20 can be used. (See, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,122,368; 5,824,805; 5,622,929; Dubowchik and
   Walker, 1999, Pharm. Therapeutics 83:67-123; Neville et al., 1989, Biol. Chem. 264:14653
    14661.) Such linkers are relatively stable under neutral pH conditions, such as those in the
   blood, but are unstable at below pH 5.5 or 5.0, the approximate pH of the lysosome. In
   certain embodiments, the hydrolyzable linker is a thioether linker (such as, e.g., a thioether
25 attached to the therapeutic agent via an acylhydrazone bond (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No.
   5,622,929).
                In yet other embodiments, the linker is cleavable under reducing conditions (e.g., a
   disulfide linker). A variety of disulfide linkers are known in the art, including, for example,
   those that can be formed using SATA (N-succinimidyl-5-acetylthioacetate), SPDP (N
30 succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio)propionate), SPDB (N-succinimidyl-3-(2
   pyridyldithio)butyrate) and SMPT (N-succinimidyl-oxycarbonyl-alpha-methyl-alpha-(2
   pyridyl-dithio)toluene)- , SPDB and SMPT (See, e.g., Thorpe et al., 1987, Cancer Res.
   47:5924-5931; Wawrzynczak et al., In Immunoconjugates: Antibody Conjugates in
                                                       45
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   Radioimagery and Therapy of Cancer (C. W. Vogel ed., Oxford U. Press, 1987. See also U.S.
   Pat. No. 4,880,935.)
                In yet other specific embodiments, the linker is a malonate linker (Johnson et al.,
    1995, Anticancer Res. 15:1387-93), a maleimidobenzoyl linker (Lau et al., 1995, Bioorg
 5 Med-Chem. 3(10):1299-1304), or a 3'-N-amide analog (Lau et al., 1995, Bioorg-Med-Chem.
   3(10):1305-12).
                In yet other embodiments, the linker unit is not cleavable and the drug is released by
   degradation. (See U.S. Publication No. 20050238649 incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety).
10              Typically, the linker is not substantially sensitive to the extracellular environment. As
   used herein, "not substantially sensitive to the extracellular environment," in the context of a
   linker, means that no more than about 20%, typically no more than about 15%, more
   typically no more than about 10%, and even more typically no more than about 5%, no more
   than about 3%, or no more than about 1% of the linkers, in a sample of binding molecule
15 drug conjugate, are cleaved when the binding molecule-drug conjugate presents in an
   extracellular environment (e.g., in plasma). Whether a linker is not substantially sensitive to
   the extracellular environment can be determined, for example, by incubating with plasma the
   conjugate for a predetermined time period (e.g., 2, 4, 8, 16, or 24 hours) and then quantitating
   the amount of free drug present in the plasma.
20              A variety of exemplary linkers that can be used with the present compositions and
   methods are described in WO 2004-010957, U.S. Publication No. 20060074008, U.S.
   Publication No. 20050238649, and U.S. Publication No. 20060024317 (each of which is
   incorporated by reference herein in its entirety).
                A "Linker unit" (LU) is a bifunctional compound that can be used to link a Drug unit
25 and an SLC unit to form a binding molecule-drug conjugate. In some embodiments, the
   Linker unit has the formula:
                -Aa-Ww-Yy
                wherein: -A- is a Stretcher unit,
30              a is 0 or 1,
                each -W- is independently an Amino Acid unit,
                w is an integer ranging from 0 to 12,
                -Y- is a self-immolative Spacer unit, and
                                                         46
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                y is 0, 1 or 2.
                In some embodiments, a is 0 or 1, w is 0 or 1, and y is 0, 1 or 2. In some
   embodiments, a is 0 or 1, w is 0 or 1, and y is 0 or 1. In some embodiments, when w is I to
 5  12, y is 1 or 2. In some embodiments, w is 2 to 12 and y is 1 or 2. In some embodiments, a is
    1 and w and y are 0.
                The Stretcher Unit
                The Stretcher unit (A), when present, is capable of linking an SLC unit to an Amino
10 Acid unit (-W-), if present, to a Spacer unit (-Y-), if present; or to a Drug unit (-D). Useful
   functional groups that can be present on a binding molecule, either naturally or via chemical
   manipulation include, but are not limited to, sulfhydryl, amino, hydroxyl, the anomeric
   hydroxyl group of a carbohydrate, and carboxyl. Suitable functional groups are sulfhydryl
   and amino. In one example, sulfhydryl groups can be generated by reduction of the
15 intramolecular disulfide bonds of a binding molecule, e.g., a SurrobodyTM. In another
   embodiment, sulfhydryl groups can be generated by reaction of an amino group of a lysine
   moiety of a surrogate light chain (SLC) or fragment thereof with 2-iminothiolane (Traut's
   reagent) or other sulfhydryl generating reagents. In certain embodiments, the binding
   molecule is a SurrobodyTM and is engineered to carry one or more lysines. In certain other
20 embodiments, the SurrobodyTM is engineered to carry additional sulihydryl groups, e.g.,
   additional cysteines.
                In one embodiment, the Stretcher unit forms a bond with a sulfur atom of the SLC
   unit. The sulfur atom can be derived from a sulfhydryl group of an SLC or fragment thereof.
   Representative Stretcher units of this embodiment are depicted in U.S. Published Patent
25 Application No. 20120294853, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. It is
   to be understood from all the exemplary embodiments that even where not denoted expressly,
   from I to 20 drug moieties can be linked to a Ligand (p=1-20). In certain embodiments, the
   Stretcher unit is linked to the Ligand unit via a disulfide bond between a sulfur atom of the
   Ligand unit and a sulfur atom of the Stretcher unit. In yet other embodiments, the Stretcher
30 contains a reactive site that can form a bond with a primary or secondary amino group of a
   Ligand. Examples of these reactive sites include, but are not limited to, activated esters such
   as succinimide esters, 4 nitrophenyl esters, pentafluorophenyl esters, tetrafluorophenyl esters,
   anhydrides, acid chlorides, sulfonyl chlorides, isocyanates and isothiocyanates. [0293] In
                                                      47
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   some embodiments, the Stretcher contains a reactive site that is reactive to a modified
   carbohydrate's (--CHO) group that can be present on a Ligand. For example, a carbohydrate
   can be mildly oxidized using a reagent such as sodium periodate and the resulting (--CHO)
   unit of the oxidized carbohydrate can be condensed with a Stretcher that contains a
 5 functionality such as a hydrazide, an oxime, a primary or secondary amine, a hydrazine, a
   thiosemicarbazone, a hydrazine carboxylate, and an arylhydrazide such as those described by
   Kaneko et al., 1991, Bioconjugate Chem. 2:133-41.
                The Amino Acid Unit
10              The Amino Acid unit (-W-), when present, links the Stretcher unit to the Spacer unit
   if the Spacer unit is present, links the Stretcher unit to the Drug moiety if the Spacer unit is
   absent, and links the Ligand unit to the Drug unit if the Stretcher unit and Spacer unit are
   absent. -W,- can be, for example, a monopeptide, dipeptide, tripeptide, tetrapeptide,
   pentapeptide, hexapeptide, heptapeptide, octapeptide, nonapeptide, decapeptide,
15 undecapeptide or dodecapeptide unit. In some embodiments, the Amino Acid unit can be
   enzymatically cleaved by one or more enzymes, including a cancer or tumor-associated
   protease, to liberate the Drug unit (-D), which in one embodiment is protonated in vivo upon
   release to provide a Drug (D). In certain embodiments, the Amino Acid unit can comprise
   natural amino acids. In other embodiments, the Amino Acid unit can comprise non-natural
20 amino acids. Useful -W,-units can be designed and optimized in their selectivity for
   enzymatic cleavage by a particular enzyme, for example, a tumor-associated protease. In one
   embodiment, a -W,- unit is that whose cleavage is catalyzed by cathepsin B, C and D, or a
   plasmin protease. In one embodiment, -W.sub.w-- is a dipeptide, tripeptide, tetrapeptide or
   pentapeptide.
25              In one aspect of the Amino Acid unit, the Amino Acid unit is valine-citrulline (vc or
   val-cit). In another aspect, the Amino Acid unit is phenylalanine-lysine (i.e., fk). In yet
   another aspect of the Amino Acid unit, the Amino Acid unit is N-methylvaline-citrulline. In
   yet another aspect, the Amino Acid unit is 5-aminovaleric acid, homo phenylalanine lysine,
   tetraisoquinolinecarboxylate lysine, cyclohexylalanine lysine, isonepecotic acid lysine, beta
30 alanine lysine, glycine serine valine glutamine (SEQ ID NO: 52) and isonepecotic acid.
                The Spacer Unit
                The Spacer unit (-Y-), when present, links an Amino Acid unit to the Drug unit when
   an Amino Acid unit is present. Alternately, the Spacer unit links the Stretcher unit to the
                                                      48
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   Drug unit when the Amino Acid unit is absent. The Spacer unit also links the Drug unit to the
   Ligand unit when both the Amino Acid unit and Stretcher unit are absent. Spacer units are of
   two general types: non self-immolative or self-immolative. A non self-immolative Spacer
   unit is one in which part or all of the Spacer unit remains bound to the Drug moiety after
 5 cleavage, particularly enzymatic, of an Amino Acid unit from the ligand-drug conjugate.
   Examples of a non self-immolative Spacer unit include, but are not limited to a (glycine
   glycine) Spacer unit and a glycine Spacer unit. When a conjugate containing a glycine
   glycine Spacer unit or a glycine Spacer unit undergoes enzymatic cleavage via an enzyme
   (e.g., a tumor-cell associated-protease, a cancer-cell-associated protease or a lymphocyte
10 associated protease), a glycine-glycine-Drug moiety or a glycine-Drug moiety is cleaved
   from L-Aa-Ww-. In one embodiment, an independent hydrolysis reaction takes place within
   the target cell, cleaving the glycine-Drug moiety bond and liberating the Drug.
                In some embodiments, a non self-immolative Spacer unit (-Y-) is -Gly-. In some
   embodiments, a non self-immolative Spacer unit (-Y-) is -Gly-Gly-.
15              In one embodiment, a Drug-Linker conjugate is provided in which the Spacer unit is
   absent (y=O), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof.
                Alternatively, a conjugate containing a self-immolative Spacer unit can release -D. As
   used herein, the term "self-immolative Spacer" refers to a bifunctional chemical moiety that
   is capable of covalently linking together two spaced chemical moieties into a stable tripartite
20 molecule. It will spontaneously separate from the second chemical moiety if its bond to the
   first moiety is cleaved.
                In some embodiments, -Yy- is a p-aminobenzyl alcohol (PAB) unit whose phenylene
   portion is substituted with       Qm wherein Q is --C1 -C8 alkyl, --C1 -C8 alkenyl, --CI-C 8 alkynyl, -
   O--(C 1 -C8 alkyl), -- O--(C 1 -C8 alkenyl), --O--( C1-C8 alkynyl), -halogen, -nitro or -cyano; and
25 m is an integer ranging from 0-4. The alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl groups, whether alone or as
   part of another group, can be optionally substituted with Al as defined herein.
                In some embodiments, -Y- is a PAB group that is linked to -W,-- via the amino
   nitrogen atom of the PAB group, and connected directly to -D via a carbonate, carbamate or
   ether group.
30              Other examples of self-immolative spacers include, but are not limited to, aromatic
   compounds that are electronically similar to the PAB group such as 2-aminoimidazol-5
   methanol derivatives (Hay et al., 1999, Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 9:2237) and ortho or para
   aminobenzylacetals. Spacers can be used that undergo cyclization upon amide bond
                                                       49
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   hydrolysis, such as substituted and unsubstituted 4-aminobutyric acid amides (Rodrigues et
   al., 1995, Chemistry Biology 2:223), appropriately substituted bicyclo[2.2.1] and
   bicyclo[2.2.2] ring systems (Storm et al., 1972, J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 94:5815) and 2
   aminophenylpropionic acid amides (Amsberry et al., 1990, J. Org. Chem. 55:5867)
 5 Elimination of amine-containing drugs that are substituted at the a-position of glycine
   (Kingsbury et al., 1984, J. Med. Chem. 27:1447) are also examples of self-immolative
   spacers.
                In some embodiments, the -D moieties are the same. In yet another embodiment, the
   D moieties are different.
10              The Drug Unit
                The drug moiety (D) can be any cytotoxic, cytostatic or immunomodulatory (e.g.,
   immunosuppressive) or drug. D is a Drug unit (moiety) having an atom that can form a bond
   with the Spacer unit, with the Amino Acid unit, with the Stretcher unit or with the Ligand
   unit. In some embodiments, the Drug unit D has a nitrogen atom that can form a bond with
15 the Spacer unit. As used herein, the terms "drug unit" and "drug moiety" are synonymous and
   used interchangeably.
                Useful classes of cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents include, for example,
   antitubulin agents, auristatins, DNA minor groove binders, DNA replication inhibitors,
   alkylating agents (e.g., platinum complexes such as cis-platin, mono(platinum), bis(platinum)
20 and tri-nuclear platinum complexes and carboplatin), anthracyclines, antibiotics, antifolates,
   antimetabolites, chemotherapy sensitizers, duocarmycins, camptothecins, etoposides,
   fluorinated pyrimidines, ionophores, lexitropsins, nitrosoureas, platinols, pre-forming
   compounds, purine antimetabolites, puromycins, radiation sensitizers, steroids, taxanes,
   topoisomerase inhibitors, vinca alkaloids, or the like.
25              Individual cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents include, for example, an androgen,
   anthramycin (AMC), asparaginase, 5-azacytidine, azathioprine, bleomycin, busulfan,
   buthionine sulfoximine, calicheamicin, camptothecin, carboplatin, carmustine (BSNU), CC
    1065, chlorambucil, cisplatin, colchicine, cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, cytidine
   arabinoside, cytochalasin B, dacarbazine, dactinomycin (formerly actinomycin),
30 daunorubicin, decarbazine, docetaxel, doxorubicin, etoposide, an estrogen, 5
   fluordeoxyuridine, 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, gramicidin D, hydroxyurea, idarubicin,
   ifosfamide, irinotecan, lomustine (CCNU), maytansine, mechlorethamine, melphalan, 6
   mercaptopurine, methotrexate, mithramycin, mitomycin C, mitoxantrone, nitroimidazole,
                                                     50
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   paclitaxel, palytoxin, plicamycin, procarbizine, rhizoxin, streptozotocin, tenoposide, 6
   thioguanine, thioTEPA, topotecan, vinblastine, vincristine, vinorelbine, VP-16 and VM-26.
                In some typical embodiments, suitable cytotoxic agents include, for example, DNA
   minor groove binders (e.g., enediynes and lexitropsins, a CBI compound; see also U.S. Pat.
 5 No. 6,130,237), duocarmycins, taxanes (e.g., paclitaxel and docetaxel), puromycins, vinca
   alkaloids, CC-1065, SN-38, topotecan, morpholino-doxorubicin, rhizoxin, cyanomorpholino
   doxorubicin, echinomycin, combretastatin, netropsin, epothilone A and B, estramustine,
   cryptophysins, cemadotin, maytansinoids, discodermolide, eleutherobin, and mitoxantrone.
                In some embodiments, the Drug is an anti-tubulin agent. Examples of anti-tubulin
10 agents include, but are not limited to, auristatins, taxanes (e.g., Taxol.RTM. (paclitaxel),
   Taxotere@ (docetaxel)), T67 (Tularik) and vinca alkyloids (e.g., vincristine, vinblastine,
   vindesine, and vinorelbine). Other antitubulin agents include, for example, baccatin
   derivatives, taxane analogs (e.g., epothilone A and B), nocodazole, colchicine and colcimid,
   estramustine, cryptophycins, cemadotin, maytansinoids, combretastatins, discodermolide, and
15 eleutherobin.
                In certain embodiments, the cytotoxic agent is a maytansinoid, another group of anti
   tubulin agents. For example, in specific embodiments, the maytansinoid is maytansine or
   DM-1 (ImmunoGen, Inc.; see also Chari et al., 1992, Cancer Res. 52:127-13 1).
                In some embodiments, the Drug is an auristatin, such as auristatin E (also known in
20 the art as a derivative of dolastatin-10) or a derivative thereof. Typically, the auristatin E
   derivative is, e.g., an ester formed between auristatin E and a keto acid. For example,
   auristatin E can be reacted with paraacetyl benzoic acid or benzoylvaleric acid to produce
   AEB and AEVB, respectively. Other typical auristatin derivatives include AFP, MMAF, and
   MMAE. The synthesis and structure of auristatin derivatives are described in U.S. Patent
25 Application Publication Nos. 2003-0083263, 2005-0238649 and 2005-000975 1; International
   Patent Publication No. WO 04/010957, International Patent Publication No. WO 02/088172,
   and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,323,315; 6,239,104; 6,034,065; 5,780,588; 5,665,860; 5,663,149;
   5,635,483; 5,599,902; 5,554,725; 5,530,097; 5,521,284; 5,504,191; 5,410,024; 5,138,036;
   5,076,973; 4,986,988; 4,978,744; 4,879,278; 4,816,444; and 4,486,414, each of which is
30 incorporated by refernence herein in its entirety.
                Auristatins have been shown to interfere with microtubule dynamics and nuclear and
   cellular division and have anticancer activity. Auristatins of the present invention bind
   tubulin and can exert a cytotoxic or cytostatic effect on a cell. There are a number of different
                                                      51
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   assays, known in the art, that can be used for determining whether an auristatin or resultant
   binding molecule-drug conjugate exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a desired cell line,
   see e.g., Example 4.
                Methods for determining whether a compound binds tubulin are known in the art.
 5 See, for example, Muller et al., Anal. Chem. 2006, 78, 4390-4397; Hamel et al., Molecular
   Pharmacology, 1995 47: 965-976; and Hamel et al., The Journal of Biological Chemistry,
    1990 265:28, 17141-17149. For purposes of the present invention, the relative affinity of a
   compound to tubulin can be determined. Some preferred auristatins of the present invention
   bind tubulin with an affinity ranging from 10 fold lower (weaker affinity) than the binding
10 affinity of MMAE to tubulin to 10 fold, 20 fold or even 100 fold higher (higher affinity) than
   the binding affinity of MMAE to tublin. or the derivatized drug, is subsequently reacted with
   the binding molecule under appropriate conditions.
                Each of the particular units of the binding molecule-drug conjugates is described in
   more detail herein. The synthesis and structure of exemplary linker units, stretcher units,
15 amino acid units, self-immolative spacer unit, and drug units are also described in U.S. Patent
   Application Publication Nos. 2003-0083263, 2005-0238649 and 2005-000975 1, each if
   which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.
                In certain embodiments, the Drug is an antimetabolite. The antimetabolite can be, for
   example, a purine antagonist (e.g., azothioprine or mycophenolate mofetil), a dihydrofolate
20 reductase inhibitor (e.g., methotrexate), acyclovir, gangcyclovir, zidovudine, vidarabine,
   ribavarin, azidothymidine, cytidine arabinoside, amantadine, dideoxyuridine,
   iododeoxyuridine, poscarnet, or trifluridine.
                In other embodiments, the Drug is tacrolimus, cyclosporine or rapamycin. In further
   embodiments, the Drug is aldesleukin, alemtuzumab, alitretinoin, allopurinol, altretamine,
25 amifostine, anastrozole, arsenic trioxide, bexarotene, bexarotene, calusterone, capecitabine,
   celecoxib, cladribine, Darbepoetin alfa, Denileukin diftitox, dexrazoxane, dromostanolone
   propionate, epirubicin, Epoetin alfa, estramustine, exemestane, Filgrastim, floxuridine,
   fludarabine, fulvestrant, gemcitabine, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, goserelin, idarubicin,
   ifosfamide, imatinib mesylate, Interferon alfa-2a, irinotecan, letrozole, leucovorin,
30 levamisole, meclorethamine or nitrogen mustard, megestrol, mesna, methotrexate,
   methoxsalen, mitomycin C, mitotane, nandrolone phenpropionate, oprelvekin, oxaliplatin,
   pamidronate, pegademase, pegaspargase, pegfilgrastim, pentostatin, pipobroman, plicamycin,
   porfimer sodium, procarbazine, quinacrine, rasburicase, Rituximab, Sargramostim,
                                                        52
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   streptozocin, tamoxifen, temozolomide, teniposide, testolactone, thioguanine, toremifene,
   Tositumomab, Trastuzumab, tretinoin, uracil mustard, valrubicin, vinblastine, vincristine,
   vinorelbine and zoledronate.
                In some embodiments, the Drug moiety is an immunomodulatory agent. The
 5 immunomodulatory agent can be, for example, gancyclovir, etanercept, tacrolimus,
   cyclosporine, rapamycin, cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil or
   methotrexate. Alternatively, the immunomodulatory agent can be, for example, a
   glucocorticoid (e.g., cortisol or aldosterone) or a glucocorticoid analogue (e.g., prednisone or
   dexamethasone).
10              In some embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is an anti-inflammatory agent,
   such as arylcarboxylic derivatives, pyrazole-containing derivatives, oxicam derivatives and
   nicotinic acid derivatives. Classes of anti-inflammatory agents include, for example,
   cyclooxygenase inhibitors, 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors, and leukotriene receptor antagonists.
                Suitable cyclooxygenase inhibitors include meclofenamic acid, mefenamic acid,
15 carprofen, diclofenac, diflunisal, fenbufen, fenoprofen, ibuprofen, indomethacin, ketoprofen,
   nabumetone, naproxen, sulindac, tenoxicam, tolmetin, and acetylsalicylic acid.
                Suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include redox inhibitors (e.g., catechol butane
   derivatives, nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), masoprocol, phenidone, Ianopalen,
   indazolinones, naphazatrom, benzofuranol, alkylhydroxylamine), and non-redox inhibitors
20 (e.g., hydroxythiazoles, methoxyalkylthiazoles, benzopyrans and derivatives thereof,
   methoxytetrahydropyran, boswellic acids and acetylated derivatives of boswellic acids, and
   quinolinemethoxyphenylacetic acids substituted with cycloalkyl radicals), and precursors of
   redox inhibitors.
                Other suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include antioxidants (e.g., phenols, propyl
25 gallate, flavonoids and/or naturally occurring substrates containing flavonoids, hydroxylated
   derivatives of the flavones, flavonol, dihydroquercetin, luteolin, galangin, orobol, derivatives
   of chalcone, 4,2',4'-trihydroxychalcone, ortho-aminophenols, N-hydroxyureas,
   benzofuranols, ebselen and species that increase the activity of the reducing selenoenzymes),
   iron chelating agents (e.g., hydroxamic acids and derivatives thereof, N-hydroxyureas, 2
30 benzyl-1-naphthol, catechols, hydroxylamines, carnosol trolox C, catechol, naphthol,
   sulfasalazine, zyleuton, 5-hydroxyanthranilic acid and 4-(omega-arylalkyl)phenylalkanoic
   acids), imidazole-containing compounds (e.g., ketoconazole and itraconazole),
   phenothiazines, and benzopyran derivatives.
                                                       53
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                Yet other suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include inhibitors of eicosanoids (e.g.,
   octadecatetraenoic, eicosatetraenoic, docosapentaenoic, eicosahexaenoic and
   docosahexaenoic acids and esters thereof, PGE1 (prostaglandin El), PGA2 (prostaglandin
   A2), viprostol, 15-monohydroxyeicosatetraenoic, 15-monohydroxy-eicosatrienoic and 15
 5 monohydroxyeicosapentaenoic acids, and leukotrienes B5, C5 and D5), compounds
   interfering with calcium flows, phenothiazines, diphenylbutylamines, verapamil, fuscoside,
   curcumin, chlorogenic acid, caffeic acid, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetrayenoic acid (ETYA),
   hydroxyphenylretinamide, Ionapalen, esculin, diethylcarbamazine, phenantroline, baicalein,
   proxicromil, thioethers, diallyl sulfide and di-(1-propenyl) sulfide.
10              Leukotriene receptor antagonists include calcitriol, ontazolast, Bayer Bay-x-1005,
   Ciba-Geigy CGS-25019C, ebselen, Leo Denmark ETH-615, Lilly LY-293 111, Ono ONO
   4057, Terumo TMK-688, Boehringer Ingleheim BI-RM-270, Lilly LY 213024, Lilly LY
   264086, Lilly LY 292728, Ono ONO LB457, Pfizer 105696, Perdue Frederick PF 10042,
   Rhone-Poulenc Rorer RP 66153, SmithKline Beecham SB-201146, SmithKline Beecham
15 SB-201993, SmithKline Beecham SB-209247, Searle SC-53228, Sumitamo SM 15178,
   American Home Products WAY 121006, Bayer Bay-o-8276, Wamer-Lambert CI-987,
   Warner-Lambert CI-987BPC-15LY 223982, Lilly LY 233569, Lilly LY-255283, MacroNex
   MNX-160, Merck and Co. MK-591, Merck and Co. MK-886, Ono ONO-LB-448, Purdue
   Frederick PF-5901, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer RG 14893, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer RP 66364,
20 Rhone-Poulenc Rorer RP 69698, Shionoogi S-2474, Searle SC-41930, Searle SC-50505,
   Searle SC-51146, Searle SC-52798, SmithKline Beecham SK&F-104493, Leo Denmark SR
   2566, Tanabe T-757 and Teijin TEI-1338.
                In certain embodiments, the cytotoxic or cytostatic agent is a dolastatin. In certain
   embodiments, the cytotoxic or cytostatic agent is of the auristatin class. Thus, in a specific
25 embodiment, the cytotoxic or cytostatic agent is monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE).
                Methods of determining whether a Drug or binding molecule-drug conjugate exerts a
   cytostatic and/or cytotoxic effect on a cell are known. Generally, the cytotoxic or cytostatic
   activity of a binding molecule-drug conjugate can be measured by: exposing mammalian
   cells expressing a target protein of the binding molecule-drug conjugate in a cell culture
30 medium; culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days; and measuring
   cell viability. Cell-based in vitro assays can be used to measure viability (proliferation),
   cytotoxicity, and induction of apoptosis (caspase activation) of the conjugate.
                                                       54
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                For determining whether a binding molecule-drug conjugate exerts a cytostatic effect,
   a thymidine incorporation assay may be used. For example, cancer cells expressing a target
   antigen at a density of 5,000 cells/well of a 96-well plated can be cultured for a 72-hour
   period and exposed to 0.5 pCi of 3H-thymidine during the final 8 hours of the 72-hour period.
 5 The incorporation of 3H-thymidine into cells of the culture is measured in the presence and
   absence of the binding molecule-drug conjugate.
                For determining cytotoxicity, necrosis or apoptosis (programmed cell death) can be
   measured. Necrosis is typically accompanied by increased permeability of the plasma
   membrane; swelling of the cell, and rupture of the plasma membrane. Apoptosis is typically
10 characterized by membrane blebbing, condensation of cytoplasm, and the activation of
   endogenous endonucleases. Determination of any of these effects on cancer cells indicates
   that a binding molecule-drug conjugate is useful in the treatment of cancers.
                Cell viability can be measured by determining in a cell the uptake of a dye such as
   neutral red, trypan blue, or ALAMARTM blue (see, e.g., Page et al., 1993, Intl. J. Oncology
15 3:473-476). In such an assay, the cells are incubated in media containing the dye, the cells are
   washed, and the remaining dye, reflecting cellular uptake of the dye, is measured
   spectrophotometrically. The protein-binding dye sulforhodamine B (SRB) can also be used to
   measure cytoxicity (Skehan et al., 1990, J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 82:1107-12).
                Alternatively, a tetrazolium salt, such as MTT, is used in a quantitative colorimetric
20 assay for mammalian cell survival and proliferation by detecting living, but not dead, cells
   (see, e.g., Mosmann, 1983, J. Immunol. Methods 65:55-63).
                Apoptosis can be quantitated by measuring, for example, DNA fragmentation.
   Commercial photometric methods for the quantitative in vitro determination of DNA
   fragmentation are available. Examples of such assays, including TUNEL (which detects
25 incorporation of labeled nucleotides in fragmented DNA) and ELISA-based assays, are
   described in Biochemica, 1999, no. 2, pp. 34-37 (Roche Molecular Biochemicals).
                Apoptosis can also be determined by measuring morphological changes in a cell. For
   example, as with necrosis, loss of plasma membrane integrity can be determined by
   measuring uptake of certain dyes (e.g., a fluorescent dye such as, for example, acridine
30 orange or ethidium bromide). A method for measuring apoptotic cell number has been
   described by Duke and Cohen, Current Protocols in Immunology (Coligan et al. eds., 1992,
   pp. 3.17.1-3.17.16). Cells also can be labeled with a DNA dye (e.g., acridine orange,
   ethidium bromide, or propidium iodide) and the cells observed for chromatin condensation
                                                        55
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   and margination along the inner nuclear membrane. Other morphological changes that can be
   measured to determine apoptosis include, e.g., cytoplasmic condensation, increased
   membrane blebbing, and cellular shrinkage.
                The presence of apoptotic cells can be measured in both the attached and "floating"
 5 compartments of the cultures. For example, both compartments can be collected by removing
   the supernatant, trypsinizing the attached cells, combining the preparations following a
   centrifugation wash step (e.g., 10 minutes at 2000 rpm), and detecting apoptosis (e.g., by
   measuring DNA fragmentation). (See, e.g., Piazza et al., 1995, Cancer Research 55:3110-16).
                The effects of binding molecule-drug conjugates can be tested or validated in animal
10 models. A number of established animal models of cancers are known to the skilled artisan,
   any of which can be used to assay the efficacy of a conjugate. Non-limiting examples of such
   models are described infra. Moreover, small animal models to examine the in vivo efficacies
   of binding molecule-drug conjugates can be created by implanting human tumor cell lines
   into appropriate immunodeficient rodent strains, e.g., athymic nude mice or SCID mice.
15
                Surrogate Light Chain (SLC) Unit
                The surrogate light chain (SLC) unit has at least one functional group that can form a
   bond with a functional group of a Linker unit. Useful functional groups that can be present on
   an SLC unit, either naturally, via chemical manipulation or via engineering, include, but are
20 not limited to, sulfhydryl (--SH), amino, hydroxyl, carboxy, the anomeric hydroxyl group of
   a carbohydrate, and carboxyl. In some embodiments, an SLC unit functional group is a
   sulfhydryl group. The sulfhydryl group is typically a solvent accessible sulfhydryl group,
   such as a solvent accessible sulfhydryl group on a cysteine residue. Sulfhydryl groups can be
   generated by reduction of an intramolecular or intermolecular disulfide bond of an SLC.
25 Sulfhydryl groups also can be generated by reaction of an amino group of a lysine moiety of
   an SLC using 2-iminothiolane (Traut's reagent) or another sulfhydryl generating reagent.
                In some embodiments, one or more sulfhydryl groups are engineered into an SLC
   unit, such as by amino acid substitution. For example, a sulfhydryl group can be introduced
   into an SLC unit. In some embodiments, a sulfhydryl group is introduced by an amino acid
30 substitution of serine or threonine to a cysteine residue, and/or by addition of a cysteine
   residue into an SLC unit (an engineered cysteine residue). In some embodiments, the cysteine
   residue is an internal cysteine residue, i.e., not located at the N-terminus or C-terminus of the
   SLC.
                                                      56
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                In an exemplary embodiment, a cysteine residue can be engineered into a surrogate
   light chain (SLC) or fragment thereof by amino acid substitution or insertion.
                To control the number of Drug or Linker unit-Drug units attached to an SLC unit, one
   or more cysteine residues can be eliminated by amino acid substitution. For example, the
 5 number of solvent accessible cysteine residues can be reduced by amino acid substitution of
   cysteine to serine residues.
                In some embodiments, an SLC unit contains 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 7 or 8 solvent-accessible
   cysteine residues. In some embodiments, an SLC unit contains 2 or 4 solvent-accessible
   cysteine residues.
10
                Amino acid residues for drug conjugation
                In one aspect, one or more amino acid residues of the SurrobodyTM polypeptides are
   selected for drug conjugation. In one embodiment, the amino acid residue is selected from
   the group consisting of native residues, non-native residues, naturally occuring residues, and
15 non-naturally occuring residues. In another embodiment, the native residue is cysteine or
   lysine. In other embodiments, the non-native residue or naturally occuring residue is cysteine
   or lysine. In one other embodiment, the non-naturally occuring residue is selected from the
   group consisting of a para-acetyl-phenylalanine, an O-methyl-L-tyrosine, an L-3-(2
   naphthyl)alanine, a 3-methyl-phenylalanine, an O-4-alkyl-L-tyrosine, a 4-propyl-L-tyrosine,
20 a tri-O-acetyl-GlcNAcp-serine, an L-Dopa, a fluorinated phenylalanine, an isopropyl-L
   phenylalanine, a p-azido-L-phenylalanine, a p-acyl-L-phenylalanine, a p-benzoyl-L
   phenylalanine, an L-phosphoserine, a phosphonoserine, a phosphonotyrosine, a p-iodo
   phenylalanine, a p-bromophenylalanine, a p-amino-L-phenylalanine, and an isopropyl-L
   phenylalanine, an O-methyl-L-tyrosine, an L-3-(2-naphthyl)alanine, and an amino-,
25 isopropyl-, or O-alkyl-containing phenylalanine analogue. Non-naturally occuring or
   encoded amino acids are further described in U.S. Published Patent Application Nos.
   20080227205 and 20100093082, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                In one aspect, thiol residues in a SurrobodyTM can be introduced by a number of
   methods known in the art. In one embodiment, the methods include the following: a)
30 modification of the SurrobodyTM with thiol-generating reagents such as 2-iminothiolane or
   homocysteine thiolactone, or b) via reaction with a disulfide-containing heterobifunctional
   crosslinking agent such as SMCC, SPP, SPDP, SPDB, sulfo-SPDB followed by reduction of
   the disulfide bond with DTT or TCEP to generate a free thiol, c) mutagenesis to incorporate
                                                         57
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   non-native cysteine residues, such as cysteine-engineered antibodies (US2007/0092940 Al,
   US 2010/0003766 Al, U.S. Pat. No. 7,723,485 B2), or d) reduction of native disulfide bonds
   (del Rosario, R. B. et al., Cancer Res. Supply. 1990, 50, 804s-808s).
                In one other aspect, the amino group of a lysine residue may be used for drug
 5 conjugation to a SurrobodyTM.
                In another aspect, the SurrobodiesTM described herein comprise non-native cysteine
   residues introduced via mutagenesis. In one embodiment, the surrogate light chain (SLC)
   comprises one or more non-native cysteine residues. In another embodiment, the one or
   more non-native cysteine residues are located in an amino acid sequence selected from the
10 group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1 (VpreB1); SEQ ID NO: 4 (VpreB3-like sequence); SEQ
   ID NO: 5 (truncated VpreB1 sequence); SEQ ID NO:6 (VpreB1 with a murine Ig 14e ader
   sequence); SEQ ID NO: 7 (murine X5 sequence); SEQ ID NO: 8 (human k5 sequence); SEQ
   ID NO:9 (truncated k5 sequence); SEQ ID NO: 10 (human k5 dTail sequence with a murine
   Ig i4eader sequence; SEQ ID NO: 35 (human VpreB1 -X5 chimeric amino acid sequence);
15 SEQ ID NO: 36 (human VpreBl-k5 chimeric amino acid sequence), and any combination
   thereof. In another embodiment, the one or more non-native cysteine residues are located in
   a human VK-like amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 12;
   SEQ ID NO: 13, SEQ ID NO: 14, SEQ ID NO: 15, SEQ ID NO: 16, SEQ ID NO: 17, SEQ
   ID NO: 18, SEQ ID NO: 19, SEQ ID NO: 20, SEQ ID NO: 21, SEQ ID NO: 22, SEQ ID
20 NO: 23, and SEQ ID NO: 24. In one other embodiment, the one or more non-native cysteine
   residues are located in a human human JCtamino aci d sequence selected from the group
   consisting of SEQ ID NO:26; SEQ ID NO: 27, SEQ ID NO: 28, SEQ ID NO: 29, SEQ ID
   NO: 30, SEQ ID NO: 31, SEQ ID NO: 32, SEQ ID NO: 33, and SEQ ID NO: 34.
                Figure 14A provides the amino acid sequence of human VpreB1 (SEQ ID NO: 54)
25 without its leader sequence i.e., a mature VpreB 1 sequence. Certain amino acid positions
   that are suitable for the introduction of a cysteine residue are underlined and bolded. In one
   embodiment, the non-native cysteine residue is introduced at one or more positions selected
   from the group consisting of T16 and T21 (sequential numbering).
                Figure 14B provides the amino acid sequence of human X5 (SEQ ID NO: 55) without
30 its leader sequence, i.e., a mature k5 sequence. Certain amino acid positions that are suitable
   for the introduction of a cysteine residue are underlined and bolded. In one embodiment, the
   non-native cysteine residue is introduced at one or more positions selected from the group
                                                      58
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   consisting of V60,K74, S78, V79, S85, A91, Vi 10, V123, Q131, N133, V166, and V170
   (sequential numbering).
                Figure 14C provides the amino acid sequence of a VpreB1-,5 fusion (SEQ ID NO:
   56) without either leader sequence. Certain amino acid positions that are suitable for the
 5 introduction of a cysteine residue are underlined and bolded. In one embodiment, the
   cysteine residue is introduced at one or more positions selected from the group consisting of
   T16 and T21, V107, K121, S125, V126, S132, A138, V157, V170, Q178, N180, V213, and
   V217 (sequential numbering).
                Figure 15A-B provides the amino acid sequences for various surrogate light chains
10 with an introduced cysteine residue (SEQ ID NOS: 57-70, respectively, in order of
   appearance).
                Therapeutic and diagnostic agents
                In one aspect, the binding molecule conjugates of the present invention include
15 therapeutic and diagnostic agents. These agents refer to a chemical compound, a mixture of
   chemical compounds, a biological macromolecule, or an extract made from biological
   materials. Therapeutic agents will be any of a wide variety of drugs, including, but not
   limited to, enzyme inhibitors, hormones, cytokines, growth factors, receptor ligands,
   antibodies, antigens, ion binding compounds including crown ethers and other chelators,
20 substantially complementary nucleic acids, nucleic acid binding proteins including
   transcription factors, toxins, etc. Suitable drugs include cytokines such as erythropoietin
   (EPO), thrombopoietin (TPO), the interleukins (including IL-I through IL-17), insulin,
   insulin-like growth factors (including IGF-1 and -2), epidermal growth factor (EGF),
   transforming growth factors (including TGF-cand TGF -A human growth hormone,
25 transferrin, epidermal growth factor (EGF), low density lipoprotein, high density lipoprotein,
   leptin, VEGF, PDGF, ciliary neurotrophic factor, prolactin, adrenocorticotropic hormone
   (ACTH), calcitonin, human chorionic gonadotropin, cotrisol, estradiol, follicle stimulating
   hormone (FSH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), leutinzing hormone (LH), progeterone,
   testosterone, toxins including ricin, and any drugs as outlined in the Physician's Desk
30 Reference, Medical Economics Data Production Company, Montvale, N.J., 1998 and the
   Merck Index, 11th Edition (especially pages Ther-I to Ther-29), both of which are expressly
   incorporated by reference.
                                                      59
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                In another embodiment, the therapeutic agent is a drug used to treat cancer. Suitable
   cancer drugs include, but are not limited to, antineoplastic drugs, including alkylating agents
   such as alkyl sulfonates (busulfan, improsulfan, piposulfan); aziridines (benzodepa,
   carboquone, meturedepa, uredepa); ethylenimines and methylmelamines (altretamine,
 5 triethylenemelamine, triethylenephosphoramide, triethylenethiophosphoramide,
   trimethylolmelamine); nitrogen mustards (chlorambucil, chlornaphazine, cyclophosphamide,
   estramustine, ifosfamide, mechlorethamine, mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride,
   melphalan, novembichin, phenesterine, prednimustine, trofosfamide, uracil mustard);
   nitrosoureas (carmustine, chlorozotocin, fotenmustine, lomustine, nimustine, ranimustine);
10 dacarbazine, mannomustine, mitobranitol, mitolactol; pipobroman; doxorubicin, carboplatin,
   oxaliplatin, and cisplatin, (including derivatives).
                In one embodiment, the therapeutic agent is a cytotoxic agent which includes, without
   limitation, pertussis toxin, taxol, cytochalasin B, gramicidin D, ethidium bromide, emetine,
   mitomycin, etoposide, tenoposide, vincristine, vinblastine, colchicin, doxorubicin,
15 daunorubicin, dihydroxy anthracin dione, mitoxantrone, mithramycin, actinomycin D,1
   dehydrotestosterone, glucocorticoids, procaine, tetracaine, lidocaine, propranolol, and
   puromycin and analogs or homologs thereof.
                In some embodiments, the therapeutic agent is an antiviral or antibacterial drug,
   including aclacinomycins, actinomycin, anthramycin, azaserine, bleomycins, cuctinomycin,
20 carubicin, carzinophilin, chromomycins, ductinomycin, daunorubicin, 6-diazo-5-oxn-I
   norieucine, duxorubicin, epirubicin, mitomycins, mycophenolic acid, nogalumycin,
   olivomycins, peplomycin, plicamycin, porfiromycin, puromycin, streptonigrin, streptozocin,
   tubercidin, ubenimex, zinostatin, zorubicin; aminoglycosides and polyene and macrolide
   antibiotics.
25              As will be appreciated by those in the art, any number of suitable drugs such as those
   found in the Physician's Desk Reference can be used.
                Diagnostic agents will generally include a detectable label. A "label" or "detectable
   label" refers to a moiety attached to a binding molecule described herein, e.g., to render the
   reaction between members of a specific binding pair, such as a binding molecule and an
30 analyte, detectable. The binding molecule so labeled is referred to as "detectably labeled." A
   binding molecule conjugated to a diagnostic agent refers to a binding molecule with a label
   incorporated that provides for the identification of the binding molecule. In an embodiment,
   the label is a detectable marker that can produce a signal that is detectable by visual or
                                                       60
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   instrumental means, e.g., incorporation of a radiolabeled amino acid or attachment to a
   polypeptide of biotinyl moieties that can be detected by marked avidin (e.g., streptavidin
   containing a fluorescent marker or enzymatic activity that can be detected by optical or
   colorimetric methods). Examples of labels for polypeptides include, but are not limited to, the
 5 following: radioisotopes or radionuclides (e.g., 3H, 14C,     5s, 90Y, 99Tc, mIn, 125 1,31 177
   166Ho,      or 1Sm); chromogens, fluorescent labels (e.g., FITC, rhodamine, lanthanide
   phosphors), enzymatic labels (e.g., horseradish peroxidase, luciferase, alkaline phosphatase);
   chemiluminescent markers; biotinyl groups; predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized
   by a secondary reporter (e.g., leucine zipper pair sequences, binding sites for secondary
10 antibodies, metal binding domains, epitope tags); and magnetic agents, such as gadolinium
   chelates. Representative examples of labels commonly employed for immunoassays include
   moieties that produce light, e.g., acridinium compounds, and moieties that produce
   fluorescence, e.g., fluorescein. Other labels are described herein. In this regard, the moiety
   itself may not be detectably labeled but may become detectable upon reaction with yet
15 another moiety. Use of "detectably labeled" is intended to encompass the latter type of
   detectable labeling.
                Preparationof surrogate light chain constructs
                The present invention provides methods of preparing the Surrobodies or surrrogate
20 light chain constructs that may be used to produce the binding molecule conjugates. Nucleic
   acids encoding the surrogate light chain constructs, e.g. VpreB and 5 polypeptides or VK
   like or JCK polypeptides, can be isolated from natural sources, e.g. developing B cells and/or
   obtained by synthetic or semi-synthetic methods. Once this DNA has been identified and
   isolated or otherwise produced, it can be ligated into a replicable vector for further cloning or
25 for expression.
                Cloning and expression vectors that can be used for expressing the coding sequences
   of the polypeptides herein are well known in the art and are commercially available. The
   vector components generally include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: a
   signal sequence, an origin of replication, one or more marker genes, an enhancer element, a
30 promoter, and a transcription termination sequence. Suitable host cells for cloning or
   expressing the DNA encoding the surrogate light chain constructs in the vectors herein are
   prokaryote, yeast, or higher eukaryote (mammalian) cells, mammalian cells are being
   preferred.
                                                      61
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                Examples of suitable mammalian host cell lines include, without limitation, monkey
   kidney CV1 line transformed bySV40 (COS-7, ATCC CRL 1651); human embryonic kidney
   (HEK) line 293 (HEK 293 cells) subcloned for growth in suspension culture, Graham et al, J
   Gen Virol. 36:59 (1977)); baby hamster kidney cells (BHK, ATCC CCL 10); Chinese
 5 hamster ovary cells/-DHFR (CHO, Urlaub et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77:4216 (1980));
   mouse sertoli cells (TM4, Mather, Biol. Reprod. 23:243-251 (1980)); monkey kidney cells
   (CV1 ATCC CCL 70); African green monkey kidney cells (VERO-76, ATCC CRL-1587);
   human cervical carcinoma cells (HELA, ATCC CCL 2); canine kidney cells (MDCK, ATCC
   CCL 34); buffalo rat liver cells (BRL 3A, ATCC CRL 1442); human lung cells (W138,
10 ATCC CCL 75); human liver cells (Hep G2, HB 8065); mouse mammary tumor (MMT
   060562, ATCC CCL5 1); TRI cells (Mather et al., Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 383:44-68 (1982));
   MRC 5 cells; FS4 cells; and Wa human hepatoma line (Hep G2).
                For use in mammalian cells, the control functions on the expression vectors are often
   provided by viral material. Thus, commonly used promoters can be derived from the
15 genomes of polyoma, Adenovirus2, retroviruses, cytomegalovirus, and Simian Virus 40
   (SV40). Other promoters, such as the p-actin protomer, originate from heterologous sources.
   Examples of suitable promoters include, without limitation, the early and late promoters of
   SV40 virus (Fiers et al., Nature, 273: 113 (1978)), the immediate early promoter of the
   human cytomegalovirus (Greenaway et al., Gene, 18: 355-360 (1982)), and promoter and/or
20 control sequences normally associated with the desired gene sequence, provided such control
   sequences are compatible with the host cell system.
                Transcription of a DNA encoding a desired heterologous polypeptide by higher
   eukaryotes is increased by inserting an enhancer sequence into the vector. The enhancer is a
   cis-acting element of DNA, usually about from 10 to 300 bp, that acts on a promoter to
25 enhance its transcription-initiation activity. Enhancers are relatively orientation and position
   independent, but preferably are located upstream of the promoter sequence present in the
   expression vector. The enhancer might originate from the same source as the promoter, such
   as, for example, from a eukaryotic cell virus, e.g. the SV40 enhancer on the late side of the
   replication origin (bp 100-270), the cytomegalovirus early promoter enhancer, the polyoma
30 enhancer on the late side of the replication origin, and adenovirus enhancers.
                Expression vectors used in mammalian host cells also contain polyadenylation sites,
   such as those derived from viruses such as, e.g., the SV40 (early and late) or HBV.
                                                      62
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                An origin of replication may be provided either by construction of the vector to
   include an exogenous origin, such as may be derived from SV40 or other viral (e.g.,
   Polyoma, Adeno, VSV, BPV) source, or may be provided by the host cell.
                The expression vectors usually contain a selectable marker that encodes a protein
 5 necessary for the survival or growth of a host cell transformed with the vector. Examples of
   suitable selectable markers for mammalian cells include dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR),
   thymidine kinase (TK), and neomycin.
                Suitable mammalian expression vectors are well known in the art and commercially
   available. Thus, for example, the surrogate light chain constructs of the present invention can
10 be produced in mammalian host cells using a pCI expression vector (Promega), carrying the
   human cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate-early enhancer/promoter region to promote
   constitutive expression of a DNA insert. The vector may also be the pTT5 expression vector
   (National Research Council, Canada). The vector can contain a neomycin
   phosphotransferase gene as a selectable marker.
15              The surrogate light chain constructs of the present invention can also be produced in
   bacterial host cells. Control elements for use in bacterial systems include promoters,
   optionally containing operator sequences, and ribosome binding sites. Suitable promoters
   include, without limitation, galactose (gal), lactose (lac), maltose, tryptophan (trp), p
   lactamase promoters, bacteriophage X and T7 promoters. In addition, synthetic promoters
20 can be used, such as the tac promoter. Promoters for use in bacterial systems also generally
   contain a Shine-Dalgarno (SD) sequence operably linked to the DNA encoding the Fab
   molecule. The origin of replication from the plasmid pBR322 is suitable for most Gram
   negative bacteria.
                The coding sequences of the individual chains within a multi-chain construct
25 comprising antibody surrogate light chain sequences can be present in the same expression
   vector, under control of separate regulatory sequences, or in separate expression vectors, used
   to co-transfect a desired host cells, including eukaryotic and prokaryotic hosts. Thus,
   multiple genes can be coexpressed using the DuetTM vectors commercially available from
   Novagen.
30              The transformed host cells may be cultured in a variety of media. Commercially
   available media for culturing mammalian host cells include Ham's F1O (Sigma), Minimal
   Essential Medium ((MEM), (Sigma), RPMI-1640 (Sigma), and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's
   Medium ((DMEM), Sigma). In addition, any of the media described in Ham et al., Meth.
                                                      63
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   Enz. 58:44 (1979) and Barnes et al., Anal. Biochem. 102:255 (1980) may be used as culture
   media for the host cells. The culture conditions, such as temperature, pH, and the like, are
   those previously used with the host cell selected for expression, and are included in the
   manufacturer' s instructions or will otherwise be alparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.
 5              Further suitable media for culturing mammalian, bacterial (e.g. E. coli) or other host
   cells are also described in standard textbooks, such as, for example, Sambrook et al., supra,
   or Ausubel et al., supra.
                Heterologous leader sequences
10              The present invention provides heterologous leader sequences that improve the
   efficiency of recombinant expression of the surrogate light chain (SLC) polypeptides that
   may be used to form the binding molecule conjugates described herein. In one aspect, the
   present invention provides isolated nucleic acid molecules encoding a surrogate light chain
   (SLC) polypeptide or SLC construct containing an SLC polypeptide, wherein the native
15 secretory leader sequence of the polypeptide is replaced by a heterologous secretory leader
   sequence. In one embodiment, the SLC polypeptide includes a VpreB polypeptide, a ;5
   polypeptide, or fragments or variants thereof. In another embodiment, the VpreB
   polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of a native VpreB 1 sequence, a native
   VpreB2 sequence, a native VpreB3 sequence, and fragments and variants thereof. In some
20 embodiments, the native VpreB sequence is selected from the group consisting of human
   VpreB1 of SEQ ID NO: 1, mouse VpreB2 of SEQ ID NOS: 2 and 3, human VpreB3 of SEQ
   ID NO: 4, human VpreB-like polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:5, human VpreB dTail polypeptide
   of SEQ ID NO:6 and fragments and variants thereof. In one other embodiment, the k5
   polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of a murine k5 of SEQ ID NO: 7; a human
25 k5 polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 8, a human k5 dTail polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:9, and
   fragments and variants thereof. In another embodiment, the SLC polypeptide includes a VK
   like polypeptide, a JCipolypeptide, or fragments o r variants thereof. In one other
   embodiment, the VK -like polypeptide sequence is selected from the group consisting of SEQ
   ID NOS: 12-24, and fragments and variants thereof. In some embodiments, the JCK
30 polypeptide sequence is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOS:26-39, and
   fragments and variants thereof.
                                                      64
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                In another aspect, the present invention provides isolated nucleic acid molecules
   encoding a surrogate light chain (SLC) polypeptide, wherein the native secretory leader
   sequence of the polypeptide is replaced by a heterologous secretory leader sequence and the
   SLC polypeptide includes an SLC polypeptide fusion, or fragments or variants thereof. In
 5 one embodiment, the SLC fusion includes a VpreB-k5 polypeptide fusion, or fragments or
   variants thereof. In another embodiment, the fusion of the VpreB polypeptide sequence and
   k5 polypeptide sequence takes place at or around the CDR3 analogous regions of the VpreB
   sequence and the k5 sequence respectively. In one other embodiment, the VpreB
   polypeptide sequence is linked at its carboxy terminus to the amino terminus of the X5
10 polypeptide sequence. In one embodiment, the SLC fusion includes a VK-like-JCK
   polypeptide fusion, or fragments or variants thereof. In another embodiment, the fusion of
   the VK-like polypeptide sequence and JCipolypeptide sequence takes pl ace at or around the
   CDR3 analogous regions of the VK-like sequence and the JCSequence respectively. I n one
   other embodiment, the VK-like polypeptide sequence is fused at its carboxy terminus to the
15 amino terminus of the JCipolypeptide sequence.
                In all embodiments, the heterologous secretory leader sequence may be a leader
   sequence of a secreted polypeptide selected from the group consisting of antibodies,
   cytokines, lymphokines, monokines, chemokines, polypeptide hormones, digestive enzymes,
   and components of the extracellular matrix. In one embodiment, the cytokine may be
20 selected from the group consisting of growth hormone, such as human growth hormone, N
   methionyl human growth hormone, and bovine growth hormone; parathyroid hormone;
   thyroxine; insulin; proinsulin; relaxin; prorelaxin; glycoprotein hormones such as follicle
   stimulating hormone (FSH), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), and luteinizing hormone
   (LH); hepatic growth factor; fibroblast growth factor; prolactin; placental lactogen; tumor
25 necrosis factor-ax and -P (TNF-c and -P); mullerian-inhibiting substance; mouse
   gonadotropin-associated peptide; inhibin; activin; vascular endothelial growth factor;
   integrin; thrombopoietin (TPO); nerve growth factors such as NGF-3; platelet-growth factor;
   transforming growth factors (TGFs) such as TGF-c and TGF-3; insulin-like growth factor-I
   and -II; erythropoietin (EPO); osteoinductive factors; interferons such as interferon-ax, -P and
30 -y; colony stimulating factors (CSFs) such as macrophage-CSF (M-CSF); granulocyte
   macrophage-CSF (GM-CSF); and granulocyte-CSF (G-CSF); interleukins (ILs) such as IL-I,
   IL-la, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12; a tumor necrosis
                                                       65
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   factor such as TNF-a or TNF-p; MIP-la; MIP- IP; and other polypeptide factors including
   LIF and kit ligand (KL).
                In all embodiments, the secretory leader sequence may be selected from the group
   consisting of leader sequences of human and non-human mammalian albumin, transferrin,
 5 CD36, growth hormone, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), erythropoietin (EPO), and
   neublastin.
                In all embodiments, the secretory leader sequence may be a synthetic sequence.
                In all embodiments, the secretory leader sequence may be a consensus sequence of
   native secretory leader sequences.
10              The murine Ig kappa leader sequence may be used (METDTLLLWVLLLWVPGSTG
   - SEQ ID NO: 53) as a heterologous leader sequence.In all embodiments, the present
   invention provides an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a surrogate light chain (SLC)
   construct.
                In one aspect, the present invention provides vectors and recombinant host cells. In
15 all embodiments, the vectors may contain a nucleic acid molecule described herein. In all
   embodiments, the recombinant host cells may be transformed with a nucleic acid described
   herein.
                In another aspect, the present invention provides methods for the expression of a
   surrogate light chain (SLC) polypeptide or SLC construct in a recombinant host cell. In one
20 embodiment, the method includes the step of transforming the recombinant host cell with a
   nucleic acid molecule encoding an SLC polypeptide or SLC construct, wherein the native
   secretory leader sequence of the polypeptide is replaced by a heterologous secretory leader
   sequence. In another embodiment, the recombinant host cell is an eukaryotic cell. In one
   other embodiment, the recombinant host cell is a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell or a
25 human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cell. In some embodiments, the SLC polypeptide or
   SLC construct is selected from the group consisting of an SLC polypeptide comprising one or
   more of a VpreB polypeptide, a X5 polypeptide, a VpreB-k5 polypeptide fusion, a VK -like
   polypeptide, a JCtpolypeptide, and a VK -like-JCtpolypeptide fusion.
                The present invention provides nucleic acid and polypeptide constructs for producing
30 surrogate light chain constructs in higher yields than when such constructs are produced from
   sequences that comprise an endogenous leader VpreB leader sequence and/or k5 leader
   sequence, or an endogenous VK-like leader sequence and/or JCi4eader sequence. Th e present
   invention also provides vectors, host cells and methods for producing surrogate light chain
                                                       66
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   constructs in higher yields than when such constructs are produced from DNA sequences that
   include the coding sequence of the endogenous leader of VpreB and/or X5, or the endogenous
   leader of VK-like and/or JCicor without an endogenous leader se quence. The higher yields
   are achieved by replacing at least one endogenous secretory leader sequence with a
 5 heterologous leader sequence of the invention. Accordingly, the present invention provides
   surrogate light chains and surrogate light chain constructs comprising heterologous leader
   sequences.
                Preferably, the expression level achieved by a heterologous leader peptide is at least
   about 5% higher, at least about 10% higher, at least about 20% higher, at least about 30%
10 higher, at least about 40% higher, or at least about 50% higher than the expression level
   achieved by using a homologous leader sequence, when expression is conducted under
   essentially the same conditions.
                In the present invention, a heterologous leader sequence is fused to the amino
   terminus of a surrogate light chain polypeptide, in place of the native VpreB leader sequence
15 and/or the native X5 leader sequence, or a K-like surrogate light chain polypeptide, in place of
   the native VK-like leader sequence and/or the native JCi4eader s equence. The inventors
   have discovered that certain heterologous leader sequences function surprisingly well, in
   contrast to the native leader sequence of the surrogate light chain during the production of
   surrogate light chain constructs, comprising a surrogate light chain sequence (VpreB/x5 or
20 VK-like/JCi.equences either fused t ogether or non-covalently associated) and an antibody
   heavy chain sequence.
                According to the present invention, the heterologous leader sequence can be any
   leader sequence from a highly translated protein, including leader sequences of antibody light
   chains and human and non-human mammalian secreted proteins. Secreted proteins are
25 included and their sequences are available from public databases, such as Swiss-Prot,
   UniProt, TrEMBL, RefSeq, Ensembl and CBI-Gene. In addition, SPD, a web based secreted
   protein database is a resource for such sequences, available at http://spd.cbi.pku.edu.cn.
   (See, Chen et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 2005, 33:D169-D173). Such secreted proteins include,
   without limitation, antibodies, cytokines, lymphokines, monokines, chemokines, polypeptide
30 hormones, digestive enzymes, and components of the extracellular matrix. Further leader
   sequences suitable for use in the constructs of the present invention are included in publicly
   available signal peptide databases, such as, the SPdb signal peptide database, accessible at
   http://proline.bis.nus.edu.sq/spdb (See, Choo et al., BMC Bioinformatics 2005, 6:249).
                                                       67
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                Specific examples of suitable heterologous leader sequences include, without
   limitation, leader sequences of human and non-human mammalian albumin, transferrin,
   CD36, growth hormone, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), erythropoietin (EPO),
   neublastin leader sequences and leader peptides from other secreted human and non-human
 5 proteins.
                When heterologous leader sequences are present in i) both a VpreB and a 15
   surrogate light chain construct, or ii) both a VK-like and a JCsurrogate light chain construct,
   each heterologous leader sequence in i) or ii) may be identical to the other or may be
   different from the other.
10              In addition to signal peptides from native proteins, the heterologous leader sequences
   of the present invention include synthetic and consensus leader sequences, which can be
   designed to further improve the performance of leader sequences occurring in nature, and
   specifically adapted for best performance in the host organism used for the expression of the
   surrogate light chain constructs of the present invention.
15              In one aspect, the present invention provides a method for the expression of a
   surrogate light chain in a recombinant host cell. In one embodiment, the method includes the
   step of providing a nucleic acid encoding an SLC polypeptide or an SLC fusion polypeptide.
   In another embodiment, the method includes the step of transforming or transfecting the
   recombinant host cell with a nucleic acid encoding an SLC polypeptide or SLC fusion
20 polypeptide. In one embodiment, the nucleic acid encoding an SLC fusion polypeptide is a
   chimeric molecule comprising a first SLC sequence covalently connected to a second SLC
   sequence, wherein the native secretory leader sequence of the first SLC sequence and/or the
   second SLC sequence is replaced by a heterologous secretory leader sequence. The first SLC
   sequence may be a VpreB sequence, a VK-like sequence, or a fusion polypeptide thereof.
25 The second SLC sequence may be a X5 sequence, a JCsequence, or a fusion polypeptide
   thereof. Heterologous leader sequences are further described in WO/2010/151808 published
   on December 29, 2010, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in
   its entirety.
                In one embodiment, a VpreB sequence is covalently connected to a k5 sequence,
30 wherein the native secretory leader sequence of said VpreB sequence and/or said )5 sequence
   is replaced by a heterologous secretory leader sequence. In another embodiment, the VpreB
   sequence is fused to the &5sequence. In one other embodiment, the VpreB sequence is
                                                       68
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   connected to the k5 sequence through a peptide or polypeptide linker. In one other
   embodiment, a VK-like sequence is covalently connected to a JCsequ ence, wherein the
   native secretory leader sequence of said VK-like sequence and/or said JCsequence is
   replaced by a heterologous secretory leader sequence. In one other embodiment, the VK-like
 5 sequence is fused to the JCsequence. In another embodiment, the VK-like sequence is
   connected to the JCsequence through a peptide or polypeptide linker.
                In other embodiments, the SLC sequence is covalently connected to an antibody
   heavy chain sequence.
                In all embodiments, the methods of expression may comprise the step of transforming
10 or transfecting a host cell with more than one nucleic acid encoding a surrogate light chain
   polypeptide, including surrogate light chain polypeptides and/or surrogate light chain fusion
   polypeptides.
                In all embodiments, the methods may further comprise the step of transforming or
   transfecting a host cell with a nucleic acid encoding an antibody heavy chain.
15              In one aspect, the present invention provides methods for the expression of surrogate
   light chain polypeptides and/or surrogate light chain fusion polypeptides having improved
   yields. In one embodiment, the methods of the present invention utilizing heterologous
   leader sequences in place of native leader sequences are characterized greater polypeptide
   expression and yield than methods which do not replace native leader sequences with
20 heterologous leader sequences.
                In one embodiment, the recombinant host cell is bacterial cell. In another
   embodiment, the host cell is a eukaryotic cell. In one embodiment, the recombinant host cell
   is a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell, or a human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cell.
                In one aspect, the present invention provides host cells containing the nucleic acids
25 described herein. In one embodiment, the invention provides a recombinant host cell
   transformed with at least one nucleic acid described herein. In one other embodiment, the
   host cell is transformed with a nucleic acid encoding an SLC fusion, which may or may not
   include a non-SLC molecule.
                In all embodiments, the host cell is further transformed with a nucleic acid encoding
30 an antibody heavy chain.
                In all embodiments, the present invention provides vectors that contain the nucleic
   acids described herein. In all embodiments, the host cell is transformed with at least one
   vector containing a nucleic acid described herein.
                                                        69
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                Purification can be performed by methods known in the art. In a preferred
   embodiment, the surrogate light chain constructs are purified in a 6xHis-tagged (SEQ ID NO:
   71) form, using the Ni-NTA purification system (Invitrogen).
                K-like SLC molecules can be engineered from existing light chain V genes and light
 5 chain constant genes. Light chains are products of gene rearrangement and RNA processing.
   As the components of the K-like SLC molecules provide alternative function from
   unrearranged light chain V genes and rearranged light chain JC genes, it is feasible to
   engineer similar translated proteins from all remaining kappa and lambda light chain V genes
   to make VK -like molecules and all combinations of the remaining kappa JC rearrangements
10 (4 JCK -like) and lambda JC rearrangements ( 4 "J" x 10 "constant"        = 40 JCX-like). Each one
   of these engineered molecules can serve purposes similar to those using VK-like and JCcas
   well as those contained in PCT Publication WO 2008/118970 published on October 2, 2008
   and WO/2010/151808 published on December 29, 2010, with VpreB and E, and
   combinations and chimeras thereof.
15              The Surrobodies of the present invention can be conjugated to an agent by methods
   known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
                The surrogate light chains of the present invention can be used to construct molecules
   for the prevention and/or treatment of disease. For such applications, molecules containing a
   surrogate light chain are usually used in the form of pharmaceutical compositions.
20 Techniques and formulations generally may be found in Remington's Pharmaceutical
   Sciences, 18th Edition, Mack Publishing Co. (Easton, Pa. 1990). See also, Wang and Hanson
   "Parenteral Formulations of Proteins and Peptides: Stability and Stabilizers," Journal of
   Parenteral Science and Technology, Technical Report No. 10, Supp. 42-2S (1988).
                Polypeptide-based pharmaceutical compositions are typically formulated in the form
25 of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers, excipients, or
   stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed, and include
   buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and other organic acids; antioxidants including ascorbic
   acid and methionine; preservatives (such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride;
   hexamethonium chloride; benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride; phenol, butyl or
30 benzyl alcohol; alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben; catechol; resorcinol;
   cyclohexanol; 3-pentanol; and m-cresol); low molecular weight (less than about 10 residues)
   polypeptides; proteins, such as serum albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic
   polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino acids such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine,
                                                       70
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   histidine, arginine, or lysine; monosaccharides, disaccharides, and other carbohydrates
   including glucose, mannose, or dextrins; chelating agents such as EDTA; sugars such as
   sucrose, mannitol, trehalose or sorbitol; salt-forming counter-ions such as sodium; metal
   complexes {e.g., Zn-protein complexes); and/or non-ionic surfactants such as TWEENTM,
 5 PLURONICS TM or polyethylene glycol (PEG).
                The molecules also may be entrapped in microcapsules prepared, for example, by
   coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization (for example,
   hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin-microcapsules and poly-(methylmethacylate)
   microcapsules, respectively), in colloidal drug delivery systems (for example, liposomes,
10 albumin microspheres, microemulsions, nano-particles and nanocapsules), or in
   macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences,
   supra.
                The molecules containing surrogate light chains disclosed herein may also be
   formulated as immunoliposomes. Liposomes containing the molecules are prepared by
15 methods known in the art, such as described in Epstein et al, Proc.NatI. A cad. Sci. USA
   82:3688 (1985); Hwang et al, Proc.Natl Acad. Sci. USA 77:4030 (1980); U.S. Patent Nos.
   4,485,045 and 4,544,545; and W097/38731 published October 23, 1997. Liposomes with
   enhanced circulation time are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,013,556.
                Particularly useful liposomes can be generated by the reverse phase evaporation
20 method with a lipid composition comprising phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol and PEG
   derivatized phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PEG-PE). Liposomes are extruded through filters of
   defined pore size to yield liposomes with the desired diameter. Fragments of the molecules of
   the present invention can be conjugated to the liposomes via a disulfide interchange reaction
   (Martin et al. J. Biol. Chem. 257:286-288 (1982). A chemotherapeutic agent is optionally
25 contained within the liposome. See Gabizon et al. J. National Cancer Inst. 81(19)1484
   (1989).
                For the prevention or treatment of disease, the appropriate dosage of molecule will
   depend on the type of infection to be treated the severity and course of the disease, and
   whether the antibody is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes. The molecule is
30 suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments. Depending on
   the type and severity of the disease, about 1 pg/kg to about 15 mg/kg of antibody is a typical
   initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient, whether, for example, by one or
   more separate administrations, or by continuous infusion.
                                                       71
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                Molecules containing a surrogate light chain of the present invention are suitable for
   use in the treatment or prevention of diseases. In one embodiment, the present invention
   provides a surrogate light chain-containing molecule for use as a medicament, or for the
   treatment of a disease. In another embodiment, the present invention provides the use of a
 5 surrogate light chain-containing molecule for the manufacture of a medicament for treating
   disease. The molecule may be a nucleic acid encoding an SLC polypeptide or SLC fusion.
                In one aspect, the invention provides methods useful for treating a disease in a
   mammal, the methods including the step of administering a therapeutically effective amount
   of a surrogate light chain-containing molecule to the mammal. The therapeutic compositions
10 can be administered short term (acute) or chronic, or intermittent as directed by physician.
                SLC polypeptide containing libraries
                In one aspect, the present invention provides a library of binding molecules which
   comprise a surrogate light chain (SLC) polypeptide. The library can be used to identify
15 binding molecules suitable for conjugation to an agent. In one embodiment, the binding
   molecules comprise an SLC polypeptide conjugated to an antibody light chain polypeptide.
   In another embodiment, the binding molecule comprises a X sequence conjugated to an
   antibody variable light chain sequence. In one other embodiment, the A sequence -antibody
   variable light chain sequence is a fusion.
20
                Constant regions with improved stability
                In another aspect, the present invention provides binding molecules with improved
   stability. In one embodiment, the binding molecule conjugates described herein are based
   upon a binding molecule comprising an SLC polypeptide and an antibody heavy chain
25 constant region, wherein the binding molecule has improved stability based upon certain
   heavy chain constant region variants. In another embodiment, the binding molecule is a
   Surrobody, which has a heteromultimer format. In one other embodiment, the
   heteromultimer comprises at least one antibody heavy chain and at least one SLC. In some
   embodiments, the antibody heavy chain comprises a variant constant region. In other
30 embodiments, the variant constant region is a variant CH3 and/or a variant CH2 region. In
   one additional embodiment, the variant constant region promotes formation of the
   heteromultimer with increased stability as compared to a non-variant constant region.
                                                       72
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                In another embodiment, the binding molecule or Surrobody comprises a first CH3
   variant region comprising amino acid modification at positions F405 and Y407 and a second
   CH3 variant region comprising amino acid modification at position T394. In one
   embodiment, one of said first and second CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises amino
 5 acid modification of position Q347 and the other CH3 domain polypeptide comprises amino
   acid modification at position K360. In one other embodiment, at least one CH3 domain
   polypeptide further comprises amino acid modification of at least one of N390 and S400. In
   other embodiments, one of said first and second CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises
   amino acid modification of T350V. In some embodiments, the first CH3 domain polypeptide
10 further comprises amino acid modification at position L35 1. In one other embodiment, the
   second CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises modification of at least one of positions
   T366 and K392.
                In one embodiment, one of said first and second CH3 domain polypeptide further
   comprises amino acid modification of D399R or D399K and the other CH3 domain
15 polypeptide comprises one or more of T41 1E, T41 ID, K409E, K409D, K392E and K392D.
   In another embodiment, one of said first and second CH3 domain polypeptide further
   comprises amino acid modification of T350V. In an additional embodiment, the first CH3
   domain polypeptide comprises one or more amino acid modifications selected from L35 1Y,
   Y405A and Y407V, and the second CH3 domain polypeptide comprises one or more amino
20 acid modifications selected from T366L, T3661, K392L, K392M and T394W.
                In an additional embodiment, the first CH3 domain polypeptide comprises one or
   more amino acid modifications selected from L35 1Y, Y405A and Y407V, and the second
   CH3 domain polypeptide comprises one or more amino acid modifications selected from
   T366L, T3661, K392L, K392M and T394W. In one other embodiment, one of said first and
25 second CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises amino acid modification of T350V.
                In one embodiment, a first CH3 domain polypeptide comprises amino acid
   modifications at positions D399 and Y407 and a second CH3 domain polypeptide comprises
   amino acid modification at positions K409 and T4 11. In another embodiment, one of said
   first and second CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises amino acid modification of
30 T350V. In other embodiments, the first CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises amino
   acid modification at position L351 and the second CH3 domain polypeptide further
   comprises amino acid modifications at position T366 and K392. In an additional
   embodiment, the first CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises amino acid modification at
                                                       73
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   position S400 and the second CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises amino acid
   modification at position N390. In another embodiment, the first CH3 domain polypeptide
   comprises amino acid modifications selected from L351Y, D399R, D399K, S400K, S400R,
   Y407A, Y4071 and Y407V; and said second CH3 domain polypeptide comprises amino acid
 5 modifications selected from T366V, T3661, T366L, T366M, N390D, N390E, K392L, K3921,
   K392D, K392E, K409F, K409W, T41 ID and T41 1E. In one other embodiment, the first
   CH3 domain polypeptide comprises amino acid modifications selected from L35 1Y, D399R,
   D399K, Y407A, Y4071 and Y407V; and said second CH3 domain polypeptide comprises
   amino acid modifications selected from T366V, T3661, T366L, T366M, K392L, K3921,
10 K392D, K392E, K409F, K409W, T41 ID and T41 1E. In one embodiment, one of said first
   and second CH3 domain polypeptide further comprises amino acid modification of T350V.
                Additional disclosure related to variant constant regions may be found in U.S.
   20120149876, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety.
15
                Kits
                The invention also provides kits and articles of manufacture containing materials
   useful for the treatment, prevention and/or diagnosis of disease. The kit includes a container
   and a label, which can be located on the container or associated with the container. The
20 container may be a bottle, vial, syringe, or any other suitable container, and may be formed
   from various materials, such as glass or plastic. The container holds a composition having a
   surrogate light chain-containing molecule as described herein, and may have a sterile access
   port. Examples of containers include an intravenous solution bag or a vial with a stopper that
   can be pierced by a hypodermic injection needle. The kits may have additional containers
25 that hold various reagents, e.g., diluents and buffers. The label may provide a description of
   the composition as well as instructions for the intended use. Kits containing the molecules
   find use, e.g., for cellular assays, for purification or immunoprecipitation of a polypeptide
   from cells. For example, for isolation and purification of a protein, the kit can contain a
   surrogate light chain-containing molecule that binds the protein coupled to beads (e.g.,
30 sepharose beads). Kits can be provided which contain the molecules for detection and
   quantitation of the protein in vitro, e.g., in an ELISA or a Western blot. Such molecules
   useful for detection may be provided with a label such as a fluorescent or radiolabel.
                                                       74
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

                The kit has at least one container that includes a molecule comprising a surrogate
   light chain described herein as the active agent. A label may be provided indicating that the
   composition may be used to treat a disease. The label may also provide instructions for
   administration to a subject in need of treatment. The kit may further contain an additional
 5 container having a pharmaceutically-acceptable buffer, such as bacteriostatic water for
   injection (BWFI), phosphate-buffered saline, Ringer's solution and dextrose solution.
   Finally, the kit may also contain any other suitable materials, including other buffers,
   diluents, filters, needles, and syringes.
                Although in the foregoing description the invention is illustrated with reference to
10 certain embodiments, it is not so limited. Indeed, various modifications of the invention in
   addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art
   from the foregoing description and fall within the scope of the appended claims.
                All publications, patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated
   by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual
15 publication, patent or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be so
   incorporated by reference.
                Further details of the invention are provided in the following non-limiting examples.
                                                    Examples
   Example 1. Surrogate Light Chain Protein Conjugates for enhanced therapeutic utility
20              Because many anti-cancer drugs target the cell cycle and kill rapidly proliferating
   cells, they do not discriminate between healthy and tumorous tissue. This lack of
   discrimination results in narrow therapeutic indices and causes severe treatment-related side
   effects that limit efficacy, because concentrations of drug that would significantly impact
   tumor growth are intolerable. Conjugating such potent molecules to specific antibodies has
25 proven successful in delivering these potent molecules to the tumor site via the selective
   nature of the antibodies, at levels that effectively counter tumor growth and importantly limit
   exposure to noncancerous tissues/cells.
                Linking such anti-cancer drugs to antibodies is achieved by several types of
   compatible amino acid side chain chemistry, typically through lysine amines and cysteine
                                                        75
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   sulfhydryls. Aside from selecting appropriate cytotoxic agents and linkers, the challenge for
   all approaches remains at least two-fold. The first challenge is due to the fact that each new
   targeting antibody can be vastly different from the previous, with respect to the nature of
   their heavy and light chains, and the resulting composition of naturally occurring side chain
 5 chemistries can vary substantially. The net result is that distinct conjugating efforts are
   expected for nearly every new antibody. Secondly, as the heavy chain is the most likely
   target of most conjugation chemistries and that it is predominantly responsible for the
   specificity and stability of antibodies, chemical derivatization of this chain is inherently more
   likely to have deleterious effects on the specificity and stability of the antibody.
10              The ability to avoid conjugation of the heavy chain is highly desirable; furthermore
   the ability to target invariant sites on the heavy chain partner would be ideal. The surrogate
   light chain of the SurrobodyTM provides such an ideal opportunity. As the surrogate light
   chain is non-diverse the composition of opportunistic naturally occurring side chains would
   remain unchanged from one surrobody to the next. As a result, it would be possible to direct
15 conjugate chemistries exclusively to the surrogate light chain and utilize a single
   derivatization strategy for each subsequent new SurrobodyTM.
   Example 2. Derivatizing naturally occurring and specifically introduced surrogate light chain
   amino acid side chains
20              Because opportunistic amino acid side chain chemistries, namely lysine-derived
   amines and cysteine-derived sulfhydryls, are likely associated with elemental structural
   needs, introduction of new sites and elimination of naturally occurring sites may be desired.
   For specific introduction of reactive sites to the external face of VpreB, away from the target
   proximal site could be highly desirable for conjugation. The selection of such sites could be
25 inferred by structural analysis of known pre B cell receptor structures, or empirically
   determined by systematic substitution of cysteines and/or lysines along the length of Vpre B
   sequence of the surrogate light chain construct. Similarly, it would be possible to assess
   naturally occurring, or systematically introduced, reactive sites on the lambda-5 derived
   portion of surrogate light chain constructs.
30
   Example 3. Specific conjugation via Surrobodies containing unnatural amino acids
                It may be desirable to specifically incorporate a drug conjugate at a particular site
   within the surrogate light chain. It is possible that the position could be precluded from using
                                                        76
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   a naturally occurring amino acid side chain chemistry because of incompatibilities from a
   structural or specificity standpoint. In this case it may be possible to incorporate an unnatural
   amino acid containing unique chemical properties that are distinctly different from all other
   amino acid chemistries such that specific chemical derivatization of the unnatural amino acid
 5 (or amino acids) would be possible. Depending upon the final disposition of the Surrobody
   one could select from numerous technologies that exist to incorporate unnatural amino acids
   through cell-free protein synthesis, or reprogrammed in vivo systems in e. coli, yeast, and
   mammalian cell lines.
10 Example 4. Protein toxin surrobody conjugates with improved therapeutic utility
                Numerous protein toxins exist that exert antiproliferative effects, but have narrow to
   nonexistent therapeutic indices. However conjugation to antibodies has proven useful in
   limiting the toxin' s effects to the site directed y the antibodies specificity. Again, even
   though this process has been successful with antibodies, the ability to place the toxin in a
15 fixed position with a heavy chain partner would be ideal. Again, the invariant nature of the
   surrogate light chain can be exploited for such a purpose. Toxins such as Pseudomonas
   Exotoxin A (PEA) could be recombinantly fused to either the VpreB or lambda-5 portions, or
   termini with in a surrogate light chain construct. By analogy, diphtheria toxin, ricin, and
   other cellular toxins could be candidates for surrogate light chain fusion. In any case
20 surrogate light chain/toxin fusions could be generated by recombinant methods, or by
   chemical conjugation of toxin to Surrobody. In the case of chemical conjugation,
   derivatization of surrobodies would utilize opportunistic naturally occurring amino acid side
   chain chemistries, or rely upon recombinantly incorporated sites, or combinations of either or
   both.
25              Surrobody-drug conjugates were observed to provide potent inhibition of cellular
   proliferation (in vitro). The following were tested for percent inhibition: (a) a parent anti
   ErbB2 Surrobody; (b) an anti-ErbB2 Surrobody using an engineered surrogate light chain
   (SLC) #1 (V213C); (c) an anti-ErbB2 engineered SLC#1(V213C) + MMAE conjugate; and
   (d) an engineered SLC#2 (T21C) + MMAE conjugate (Figure 9 and Table 4.1). Briefly,
30 these molecules were tested for their ability, in vitro, to inhibit growth of SKBR3 cells. The
   assay involved plating 5,000 cells per well in a 96-well culture dish and 3-6 hours after
   plating the cells treating them with control surrobodies and drug conjugated surrobodies.
   After 6 days of treatment the cell viability was assessed by Cell titer Glo (Promega) assay
                                                      77
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   and the results plotted and analyzed using Prism (Graphpad) software. Overall, the results
   indicate that it is possible to modify an SLC to increase a cytotoxic payload and increase both
   the potency and efficacy of these antiproliferative surrobodies. Specifically,the SLC +
   conjugates were observed to perform as well as, or better than an antibody-drug conjugate
 5 (data not shown).
   Table 4.1
                                                        Potency [pM]            Efficacy
   Parent                                               0.615                   20%
   Engineered SLC#1 (V213C) construct                   0.382                    19%
   Engineered SLC#1 (V213C) + Conjugate                 0.058                   96%
   Engineered SLC#2 (V213C) + Conjugate                 0.156                   99%
                Several Surrobody-drug conjugates (bivalent, bispecific, and monovalent) were
10 analyzed for potency and for the ability to inhibit cell proliferation of cell lines with high
   receptor expression (Figure 11 A-B and Table 4.2).
                All of the constructs in Table 4.2 contain a surrogate light chain with a V213C
   mutation. The RI (or EGFR) bivalent conjugate is a Surrobody-conjugate that binds EGFR
   and is conjugated to MMAE via an MC-vc-PAB linker. The R2/R1 (or ErbB2/EGFR)
15 bispecific construct is a Surrobody-conjugate that binds to both ErbB2 and EGFR and is
   conjugated to MMAE via an MC-vc-PAB linker. The RI (or EGFR) monovalent conjugate
   is a Surrobody-conjugate having one functionally null moiety and a monovalent EGFR
   binding moiety, which is conjugated to MMAE via an MC-vc-PAB linker. The R2 (or
   ErbB2) monovalent conjugate is a Surrobody-conjugate having one functionally null moiety
20 and a monovalent ErbB2 binding moiety, which is conjugated to MMAE via an MC-vc-PAB
   linker.
                Briefly, these molecules were tested for their ability, in vitro, to inhibit growth of
   A431 cells. The assay involved plating 7,500 cells per well in a 96-well culture dish and 3-6
   hours after plating the cells treating them with control surrobodies and drug conjugated
25 surrobodies. After 4 days of treatment the cell viability was assessed by Cell titer Glo
   (Promega) assay and the results plotted and analyzed using Prism (Graphpad) software.
   Figure 11 A depicts the following conjugate constructs: RI bivalent ( 2 identical SLCs and
   heavy chains bivalent for RI, or EGFR); R2/R1 bispecific (SLC + R2 or ErbB2 heavy chain
                                                       78
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   and SLC + RI or EGFR heavy chain); RI or EGFR monovalent (SLC + heavy chain for RI
   or EGFR and null); and R2 monovalent (SLC + heavy chain for R2 or ErbB2 and null).
   Figure 11 B shows the percent inhibition of proliferation. Overall, the results indicate that it
   is possible to modify an SLC to increase a cytotoxic payload and increase both the potency
 5 and efficacy of monospecific and bispecific surrobodies. Specifically,the bispecfic SLC +
   conjugates were observed to perform better than either monovalent monospecific an
   antibody-drug conjugate and possibly provide a greater index of killing compared to single
   specificities that may predominate undesirable targeting to healthy tissue compared to tumor
   tissue, which may only be achieved by bispecific targeting compared to monospecific
10 targeting that may be further improved by affinity tuning bispecifics to bind significantly
   better when both targets are present compared to when either or both are reduced or absent on
   healthy tissue.
   Table 4.2
                                             Potency [pM]
   RI bivalent conjugate                     0.067
   R2/R1 bispecific conjugate                0.704
   RI monovalent conjugate                   3.595
   R2 monovalent conjugate                   202.6
15
   Example 5. Immunoconjugates with improved therapeutic utility
                Immunostimulatory cytokines, such as IL-2 can enhance tumor cell killing, but have
   deleterious side effects when administered systemically. As such, it is desirable to conjugate
   IL-2 to surrogate light chains to enhance tumor cell killing, while restricting broad systemic
20 availability. To create such a molecule one can recombinantly engineer a surrogate light
   chain/IL-2 fusion. We created such molecules where human IL-2 was cloned in frame with
   the N-terminus of Lambda-5, the C-terminus of VpreB, and also the N-terminus of a VpreB
   Lambda-5 fusion construct. The resulting proteins were coexpressed with a heavy chain
   from a surrobody that specifically recognizes human HGF.
25              We specifically assessed the bioactivity of the IL-2 fusions. Briefly, the IL-2 bearing
   Surrobodies were tested for the bioactivity in an HT-2 proliferation assay and compared with
   control Surrobodies and recombinant human IL-2. Results in Figure 1 show that activity is
   comparable to a recombinant reference standard. As IL-2 is a rather large protein and the site
                                                       79
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   for conjugated fusion could be proximal to surfaces facing the Heavy Chain CDRs we wished
   to see if the IL-2 proteins impeded target binding (HGF). As seen in Figure 2, the IL-2
   bearing Surrobodies maintained excellent high affinity binding characteristics, indicating that
   no significant steric issues were created by any of the fusions.
 5
   Example 6. Radiolabeled Surrobodies with improved utility
                Targeting Surrobodies can be created such that diagnostic or therapeutic radioactive
   conjugates could be incorporated specifically into the surrogate light chain. One such
   method would be to utilize naturally occurring side chain chemistries, such as phenols on
10 tyrosines to incorporate Iodine-based radionuclides. Alternatively, tyrosines could be
   systematically substituted throughout either the VpreB or lambda-5 domains of a surrogate
   light chain to incorporate an optimally positioned amount of radionuclide. Alternatively,
   other nuclides may be used and additional amenable sites derivatized. Also several chelate
   methods that utilize direct association, or bispecific components, fused or incorporated within
15 either the VpreB or lambda-5 domains of a surrogate light chain could be used.
   Example 7. Targeted enzymatic prodrug activation
                Prodrugs can be specifically activated by enzymes. As Surrobodies have been shown
   to maintain specific binding properties, even in the presence of significantly-sized protein
20 fusions, we would take the opportunity to conjugate a prodrug activating enzyme to enables
   specific activation at the tumor targeted site. As an example, we would fuse an enzymatic
   prodrug activator such as beta-lactamase or carboxypeptidase G2 to the Surrogate light chain.
   The resulting Surrobody would be administered and next a prodrug capable of activation by
   the conjugated enzyme would be administered.
25
   Example 8. Surrobody targeted drug-loaded particles
                Either drug-loaded liposomes or nanoparticles could be specifically derived through
   naturally occurring chemistries in the Surrogate Light Chain to enable stable association of
   targeted Surrobodies on their surface. In this instance one would conjugate bifunctional
30 agents that incorporate into naturally occurring or engineered sites on the surrogate light
   chain and also specifically and stably associate with the drug-loaded liposomes or
   nanoparticles. Such drug-loaded complexes would then be administered to localized the
   liposome or nanoparticle cargo to the tumor site.
                                                       80
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   Example 9. Bispecific and monospecific Surrobody-Drug conjugates
                The following Surrobody-drug conjugates (bispecific and monospecific) were
   constructed and evaluated for the percentage of drug conjugated (Figure 10 and Table 9.1).
 5 The R3/null V213C is a monvalent Surrobody having one functionally null moiety, a
   monvalent ErbB3 binding moiety, and a surrogate light chain with a V213C mutation. The
   R2/null V213C is a monvalent Surrobody having one functionally null moiety, a monvalent
   ErbB2 binding moiety, and a surrogate light chain with a V213C mutation. The Ri/null
   V213C is a monvalent Surrobody having one functionally null moiety, a monvalent EGFR
10 binding moiety, and a surrogate light chain with a V213C mutation. The R2/R3 null V213C
   is a monvalent Surrobody having one functionally null moiety, a bispecific ErbB2/ErbB3
   binding moiety (Stacked Variable Domain), and a surrogate light chain with a V213C
   mutation. The R1/R3 null V213C is a monvalent Surrobody having one functionally null
   moiety, a bispecific EGFR/ErbB3 binding moiety (Stacked Variable Domain), and a
15 surrogate light chain with a V213C mutation. The R1/R2 null V213C is a monvalent
   Surrobody having one functionally null moiety, a bispecific EGFR/ErbB2 binding moiety
   (Stacked Variable Domain), and a surrogate light chain with a V213C mutation.
                In general the described surrobodies were transiently produced in HEK293 cells and
   purified using Protein A chromatography. The resulting proteins were reduced with TCEP
20 (tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine) to reveal unpaired cysteine thiols and then allowed to reform
   parental inter and intrachain disulfide bonds. Next the proteins were conjugated through
   maleimide chemistries with MMAE (Monomethyl auristatin) toxin and subsequently
   subjected to size exclusion chromatography to remove unreacted MMAE toxin. Finally, the
   resulting proteins were examined by reverse phase HPLC. Toxin conjugated entities were
25 identified by their slower elution properties and their relative amounts quantitated by A280
   absorption.
                                                      81
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   Table 9.1
   Bispecific                           # toxins conjugated  % Conjugated
    1: R3/null V213C                    zero to 2            97
   2: R2/null V213C                     zero to 2            92
   3: Ri/null V213C                     zero to 2            95
   4: R2/R3 null V213C                  zero to 2            96
   5: R1/R3 null V213C                  zero to 2            94
   6: R1/R2 null V213C                  zero to 2            93
   7: R3/null V213C                     zero to 2            95
   8: Ri/null V213C                     zero to 2            94
   9: R2/null V213C                     zero to 2            97
    10: Herception/V205C                zero to 2            74
   The results indicate that unoptimized reactions generate surrobodies that are more completely
   conjugated than a HerceptinTM control monoclonal antibody. The Surrobody-drug constructs
 5 described herein demonstrate drug conjugation that can exceed antibody efficiencies. In
   addition, this efficiency of conjugation has the potential to be beneficial for subsequent
   development steps.
   Example 10. Serum stability of Surrobody-drug conjugates
10              Surrobody-drug conjugates were observed for serum stability. In previous
   unoptimized conjugation reactions almost all the surrobodies are conjugated, with most
   carrying two cytotoxic molecules. Figure 12A depicts serum conjugate stability (biotin) for
   the following constructs: ErbB2 SLC (N180C), ErbB2 SLC (T21C), and ErbB2 SLC
   (V213C). Figure 12B depicts serum stability for various Herceptin TM conjugates (V205C,
15 Al 14C, and S296C). Briefly specific proteins were transiently produced in HEK293 cells
   and purified using Protein A chromatography, as previously described. The resulting
   proteins were reduced with TCEP (tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine) to reveal unpaired
   cysteine thiols and then allowed to reform parental inter and intrachain disulfide bonds. Next
   the proteins were conjugated through maleimide chemistries with biotin and subsequently
20 subjected to size exclusion chromatography to remove unreacted biotin. Next, the resulting
   purified biotin conjugated surrobodies were mixed with serum for various periods of time at
                                                     82
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   37 degrees centigrade. After incubation with serum the resulting surrobodies were captured
   in ErbB2 coated ELISA format and then detected with either anti-Fc antibodies or
   Streptavidin. With the differences between the relative strengths of these two methods of
   binding detection being reflective of site specific conjugate stability.
 5
   Example 11. Analysis of aggregation of Surrobody-drug conjugates
                Surrobody constructs containing new site specific cysteines introduced into the
   surrogate light chain constucts were generated and following protein A purification the
   unpaired cysteine thiols were reduced and allowed to react in either an intermolecular or
10 intramolecular mode under nonreducing conditions at high protein concentration. We then
   examined proteins having such free thiol exposures from newly engineered cysteines for
   aggregation following concentration (Table 11.1 and Figure 13A-B - dashed line         = 0.5
   mg/mL; solid line = ~22 mg/mL). The SLC#1 "" is a bivalent Surrobody -conjugate that
   binds ErbB2 and contains a surrogate light chain with a V213C mutation, which is
15 conjugated to MMAE via an MC-vc-PAB linker. The SLC#2 "VpreB" is a bivalent
   Surrobody-conjugate that binds ErbB2 and contains a surrogate light chain with a T2 1C
   mutation, which is conjugated to MMAE via an MC-vc-PAB linker.
   Table 11.1
                                                SLC #1     SLC #2              Herceptin TM
                                     Normal SLC
                                                "E" - Cys  "VpreB" - Cys       V205C
     %Aggregate                      0.0        0.0        1.0                 4.2
   @ 0.5 mg/mL
     %Aggregate                      1.2        2.8        8.3                 5.2
   @ 22 mg/mL
20
   Figure 13A-B depicts Normal SLC and SLC#1 (""              - Cys). Figure 13C-D depicts SLC#2
   ("VpreB" - Cys) and HerceptinTM V205C. Experiment approach used: Surrobodies were
   reduced, concentrated in spin columns, and examined by SEC. It was observed that
   following storage at >20mg/mL for 3 days at 4C, those with free thiols accumulated 10-13%
25 aggregate. Dilution reduced it for Surrobodies to ~5%, but not for HerceptinTM.
                                                        83
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

  Figure 13A-B depicts Normal SLC and SLC#1 ("A"       - Cys). Figure 13C-D depicts SLC#2
  ("VpreB" - Cys) and HerceptinTM V205C. Experiment analysis involved size exclusion
  chromatography analysis following storage at >20mg/mL for 3 days at 4'C. In this example,
  the resulting analyzed aggregate content for Surrobody conjugation was capable of being
5 lower than that seen for HerceptinTM.
                                                84
  9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   What is claimed is:
    1.          A binding molecule conjugate comprising a surrogate light chain (SLC) polypeptide
   having at least one agent linked to an amino acid residue of the SLC polypeptide at a
   predetermined amino acid position, wherein the amino acid residue is either
 5 (i) normally present in the SLC polypeptide at said amino acid position, or
   (ii) introduced into the amino acid sequence of said SLC polypeptide at said amino acid
   position.
   2.           The binding molecule conjugate of claim 1, wherein the binding molecule is a
10 Surrobody.
   3.           The binding molecule conjugate of claim 2, wherein the SLC polypeptide comprises a
   VpreB sequence and/or A sequence conjugated to a h eterologous amino acid sequence.
15 4.           The binding molecule conjugate of claim 3, wherein the SLC polypeptide comprises a
   VpreB sequence.
   5.           The binding molecule conjugate of claim 4, wherein the heterologous amino acid
   sequence comprises a X sequence.
20
   6.           The binding molecule conjugate of claim 5, wherein the A sequence is fused to the
   VpreB sequence.
   7.           The binding molecule conjugate of claim 4, comprising a fusion of a VpreB sequence
25 to a heterologous amino acid sequence.
   8.           The binding molecule conjugate of claim 7, wherein said heterologous amino acid
   sequence is a A sequence.
30 9.           The binding molecule conjugate of claim 7, wherein said heterogeneous amino acid
   sequence comprises an antibody light chain variable region sequence.
                                                     85
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

    10.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 9, wherein said antibody light chain variable
   region sequence is fused to said VpreB sequence at a site analogous to an antibody light
   chain CDR3 region.
 5  11.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 9, wherein the CDR3 region of said
   antibody light chain variable region sequence is fused to said VpreB sequence at a site
   analogous to said CDR3 region.
    12.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 11, wherein said antibody light chain is a X
10 chain.
    13.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 11, wherein said antibody light chain is a K
   chain.
15  14.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 9, wherein said heterologous amino acid
   sequence further comprises an antibody light chain constant region sequence.
    15.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 14, wherein said constant region sequence is
   the entire constant region of an antibody light chain.
20
    16.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 3, comprising a X sequence.
    17.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 16, wherein said heterogeneous amino acid
   sequence is a VpreB sequence conjugated to said A s equence.
25
    18.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 17, wherein said conjugation is a fusion of
   said A and VpreB sequences.
    19.         The binding molecule conjugate of claim 18, wherein said conjugation is a covalent
30 linkage between said X and VpreB sequences.
   20.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 19, wherein said covalent linkage is formed
   by a connecting peptide or polypeptide sequence.
                                                     86
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   21.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 3, wherein the SLC polypeptide comprises a
   VpreB sequence and a A sequence, wher ein said conjugation is non-covalent association.
 5 22.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 21, wherein at least one of said VpreB and
   A sequences is a fragment or variant of a native V preB and X sequence, respectively.
   23.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 3, wherein the SLC polypeptide is further
   conjugated to a second heterologous amino acid sequence.
10
   24.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 23, wherein the SLC polypeptide comprises
   a fusion of a VpreB sequence to a A sequence, covalently associated with said s econd
   heterologous amino acid sequence.
15 25.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 24, wherein said second heterogeneous
   polypeptide sequence is an antibody heavy chain sequence comprising a variable region.
   26.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 25, wherein said antibody heavy chain
   sequence is conjugated to the fusion of said VpreB sequence and said A sequence
20 (i) by a peptide linker; or
   (ii) by non-covalent association, to form a dimeric complex.
   27.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 26, wherein the antibody heavy chain
   variable region sequence binds to the same target as said SLC polypeptide.
25
   28.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 26, wherein said antibody heavy chain
   variable region sequence binds to a target different from the target to which said SLC
   polypeptide binds.
30 29.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 21, further comprising an antibody heavy
   chain sequence comprising a variable region, non-covalently associated with the non
   covalently associated VpreB sequence and A sequenc es, to form a trimeric complex.
                                                     87
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   30.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 29, wherein said antibody heavy chain
   comprises variable region sequences binding to the same target as said SLC polypeptide.
   31.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 29, wherein said antibody heavy chain
 5 comprises variable region sequences binding to a target different from the target to which
   said SLC polypeptide binds.
   32.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 26 or 29, further comprising a polypeptide
   comprising one or more functionally null binding regions conjugated to the dimeric or
10 trimeric complex.
   33.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 32, wherein the polypeptide comprises an
   antibody heavy chain amino acid sequence.
15 34.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 1, wherein the amino acid residue is
   introduced into the amino acid sequence of the SLC polypeptide by a substitution or an
   insertion.
   35.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 1 or 34, wherein the amino acid residue is a
20 cysteine or a lysine.
   36.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 35, wherein the amino acid residue is
   selected from the group consisting of a cysteine, a lysine, and a para-acetyl-phenylalanine
   (pAcF).
25
   37.          The binding molecule conjugate of claim 1, wherein the binding molecule is capable
   of binding at least one target or at least two targets.
   38.          The binding molecule of claim 1, wherein the agent is a therapeutic agent or a
30 diagnostic agent.
                                                     88
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   39.          The binding molecule of claim 38, wherein the therapeutic agent is selected from the
   group consisting of a maytansinoid, a monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) and a monomethyl
   auristatin F (MMAF).
 5 40.          The binding molecule of claim 38, wherein the diagnostic agent comprises a
   detectable label.
   41.          The binding molecule of claim 40, wherein the detectable label is a fluorescent dye or
   a radionuclide.
10
   42.          The binding molecule of claim 1, wherein the linker is a non-cleavable linker or a
   cleavable linker.
   43.          The binding molecule of claim 42, wherein the non-cleavable linker comprises a
15 maleimido-based moiety or a haloacetyl-based moiety.
   44.          The binding molecule of claim 40, wherein the cleavable linker is selected from the
   group consisting of a peptidyl linker, a pH-sensitive linker, and a linker cleavable under
   reducing conditions.
20
   45.          The binding molecule of claim 44, wherein the peptidyl linker comprises a dipeptide
   linker.
   46.          The binding molecule of claim 42, wherein the linker is selected from the group
25 consisting of N-succinimidyl 4-(maleimidomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylate (SMCC), N
   succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxy-(6-amidocaproate),              (LC
   SMCC), K-maleimidoundecanoic acid N-succinimidyl ester (KMUA), y-maleimidobutyric
   acid N-succinimidyl ester (GMBS), c-maleimidocaproic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester
   (EMCS), m-maleimidobenzoyl-N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (MBS), N-(a
30 maleimidoacetoxy)-succinimide ester [AMAS], succinimidyl-6-(p
   maleimidopropionamido)hexanoate (SMPH), N-succinimidyl 4-(p-maleimidophenyl)
   butyrate (SMPB), N-(p-maleimidophenyl)isocyanate (PMPI), 6-maleimidocaproyl (MC),
   maleimidopropanoyl (MP), valine-citrulline (val-cit), alanine-phenylalanine (ala-phe), p
                                                     89
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   aminobenzyloxycarbonyl (PAB), N-Succinimidyl 4-(2-pyridylthio) pentanoate (SPP),
   maleimidocaproyl-L-valine-L-citrulline-p-aminobenzyl alcohol p-nitrophenylcarbonate (MC
   val-cit-PAB), N-succinimidyl-4-(iodoacetyl)-aminobenzoate (SIAB), N-succinimidyl
   iodoacetate (SIA), N-succinimidyl bromoacetate (SBA), N-succinimidyl 3
 5 (bromoacetamido)propionate (SBAP), N-succinimidyl-5-acetylthioacetate (SATA), N
   succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio)propionate (SPDP), N-succinimidyl-3-(2
   pyridyldithio)butyrate) (SPDB), and N-succinimidyl-oxycarbonyl-alpha-methyl-alpha-(2
   pyridyl-dithio)toluene) (SMPT).
10 47.          The binding molecule conjugate of any one of claims I to 46, wherein said amino
   acid residue is located
   (i) at position 16 and/or 21 of a mature VpreB 1 sequence; and/or
   (ii) at one or more positions selected from the group consisting of 60, 74, 78, 79, 85, 91, 110,
    123, 131, 133, 166, and 170 of a mature A sequence
15
   48.          A Surrobody comprising a surrogate light chain (SLC) polypeptide having at least one
   amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of:
   SSALGCTIRLT (SEQ ID NO: 37),
   TTIRLCCTLRN (SEQ ID NO: 38),
20 SSVTHCFGSGT (SEQ ID NO: 39),
   VLSQPCATPSV (SEQ ID NO: 40),
   PKATPCVTLFP (SEQ ID NO: 41),
   KATPSCTLFPP (SEQ ID NO: 42),
   TLFPPCSEELQ (SEQ ID NO: 43),
25 SEELQCNKATL (SEQ ID NO: 44),
   PGILTCTWKAD (SEQ ID NO: 45),
   PITQGCEMTTP (SEQ ID NO: 46),
   TTPSKCSNNKY (SEQ ID NO: 47),
   PSKQSLNKYAA (SEQ ID NO: 48),
30 HEGSTCEKTVA (SEQ ID NO: 49), and
   TCEKTCAPAEC (SEQ ID NO: 50).
   49.          A Surrobody comprising a surrogate light chain (SLC) having at least one amino acid
   residue at a predetermined amino acid position for conjugation to an agent, wherein the
35 amino acid residue is located
   (i) at position 16 and/or 21 of a mature VpreB 1 sequence; and/or
                                                     90
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

   (ii) at one or more positions selected from the group consisting of 60, 74, 78, 79, 85, 91, 110,
    123, 131, 133, 166, and 170 of a mature A sequence.
   50.          The Surrobody of claim 49, wherein said amino acid residue is introduced into the
 5 amino acid sequence of the SLC polypeptide.
   51.          The Surrobody of claim 50, wherein the amino acid residue is introduced into the
   amino acid sequence of the SLC polypeptide by a substitution.
10 52.          The Surrobody of claim 50 or 51, wherein the introduced amino acid is a cysteine or a
   lysine.
                                                     91
   9645400_1 (GHMatters) P97558.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
               !
               !
<removed-apn>
                    " #$!$
                    " # $
               "
                     %&'(& ( )'*+,-(          .
                     !
                     -/- +%0,'(+
              !
              '&    '*   *0   1%   *- 2%1     '3   '3    '&   '3   4' 2%1     5*    5+   4*   15
              5+    15   *-   1(   *- 2%1     '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-   1%    '&    '*   '*   1%
              '3    15   4*   4*   1'    *6   '3    4*   5+   4*   '3   *6     +(   +0   ,+   +0
                                                   !                          !
              1'    15 2%1    5*   '* 2%1     5*   *0    5*   1(   1(    *6   *-    15   ,+   *-
                                                                        "
               *-   *6   4'   '3   '3    *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*   +0    5+    '*   1(    15
              "                                                                               $
              *-    1( 2%1    *-    *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+   +0 2%1      1%   *6   +(
                                   $
              *6    15   5*   '3   '*    1'   '*   13    '3   1(   *-   13    +0    13   1%   '&
                                                               %6'

<removed-date>
              5*    5*   5+   1%   '&    15   1%   *6    '*   '*   13   5+    13    13   *6   13
              *6    13   *0   13   13    13   '&   13    *-   4*   1%   1%    *6    4*   *6 2%1
                                                                        !
<removed-apn>
              *-
              !
                     !
                     3+ +0.
              !
              '&    1%   *0   4*   '* 2%1     '3   '3    '&   '3   '3   1%    ,+    '3   4*   15
              5+    15   *-   1(   *-    '& 2%1    ,+    1(   *-   *-   '*    1%    '*   '*   '*
              '3    15   1%   4*   1'    *6   '3    '*   5+   4*   '3   '*     +(   +0   ,+   +(
                                                   !                          !
              1'    15   1'   5*   '*    1'   5*   *0    5*   1(   1(    *6   *-    15   ,+   *-
                                                                        "
               *-   *6   4'   '3   '3    *6   5*   4'    '*   ,+   '*   +0    5+    ,+   1(    15
              "                                                                               $
              *-    +0   1'   *-    *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+   +0    4*    1%   *6   +(
                                   $
              '3    15   5*   '3   '*    1'   '*   13    '3   1(   *-   13    +0    13   1% 2%1
              5*    5*   5+   1% 2%1     15   '3   *6    '*   ,+   13   5+    5+    *6   '&   13
                                                               %6'

<removed-date>
              *6    13   *0   13   15    13   5+   '*    5*   4*   +0   '3    15    '*
                                                                        !
                     3+ +0.
<removed-apn>
              !
              '&    1%   *0   4*   '* 2%1     '3   '3    '&   '3   '3   1%    ,+    '3   4*   15
              5+    15   4*   '3   15 2%1     1(   15    4'   '3   1%   *-    *- 2%1     1%   '3
              '3    5+   *-   '*   +0    15   ,+    1%   '*   1'   4'   '*     15   5+   15   *-
                                                   !                          !
              1(    *-   '& 2%1    ,+    1(   *-   *-    '*   1%   '*    '*   '*    '3   15   1%
                                                                        "
               4*   1'   *6   '3   '*    5+   4*   '3    '*   +(   +0   ,+    +(    1'   15    1'
              "                                                                               $
              5*    '*   1'   5*    *0   5*   1(   1(    *6   *-   15   ,+    *-    *-   *6   4'
                                   $
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   ,+   '*    +0   5+   ,+   1(    15    *-   +0   1'
              *-    *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0   4*   1%   *6    +(    '3   15   5*
              '3    '*   1'   '*   13    '3   1(   *-    13   +0   13   1% 2%1      5*   5*   5+
                                                                        !
              1% 2%1     15   '3   *6    '*   ,+   13    5+   5+   *6   '&    13    *6   13   *0
              !                                                                               "
              13    15   13   5+   '*    5*   4*   +0    '3   15   '*
                                                               %6'

<removed-date>
                                   "
                    !
                     -/- +%0,'(+
              !      !
              '&    1%   5+   *6   5+    '3   '*   4'    '3   '3   '&   15    4*    4'   '3   '*
<removed-apn>
              2%1   '*   1(   4* 2%1     '3   1%   1(    '3   +0   1%   '3    '3 2%1     4'   *-
              15    1( 2%1    1%   1(    '3   '*    5+   4*   '3   '*   *-     1(   ,+ 2%1    4*
                                                   !                          !
              1'    *6   +0   5*   15 2%1     '*   *0    5*   1(   1(    *6   1%    15   '*   1%
                                                                        "
               *-   *6   5*   '3   '3    5*   5*   *6    '*   13   13   +0    ,+    ,+   *6    *-
              "                                                                               $
              1%    +0   1'   *-    +0   *6   4'   '*    1%   1%   5+   +0    13    1%   ,+   +(
                                   $
              1%    5+ 2%1    '3   4*    1'   '*   *- 2%1     1(   *-   13    +0    +0   1%   +0
              5*    5*   5+   '* 2%1     15   5*   15    4'   '*   *-
                     -/- +%0,'(+
              !
              '&    '*   *0   1%   *- 2%1     '3   '3    '&   '3   4' 2%1     5*    5+   4*   15
              5+    15   *-   1(   *- 2%1     '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-   1%    '&    '*   '*   1%
                                                               %6' !

<removed-date>
              '3    15   4*   4*   1'    *6   '3    4*   5+   4*   '3   *6     +(   +0   ,+   +0
                                                   !                          !
              1'    15 2%1    5*   '* 2%1     5*   *0    5*   1(   1(    *6   *-    15   ,+   *-
                                                                        "
<removed-apn>
               *-   *6   4'   '3   '3    *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*   +0    5+    '*   1(    15
              "                                                                               $
              *-    1( 2%1    *-    *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+   +0 2%1      1%   *6   +(
                                   $
              *6    15   5*   '3   '*    1'   '*   13    '3   1(   *-   13    +0    13   1%   '&
              5*    5*   5+   1%   '&    15   1%
                    "
                     !"
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !      "
              '&    13   4*   +0   4*    '3   '3   '3    *0 2%1    '3   '3    '3    *0 2%1    *-
              15    '*   4*   15   1(    *- 2%1    '3    ,+   1(   *-   *-    1%    '&   '*   '*
              1%    '3   15   4*   4*    1'   *6    '3   4*   5+   4*   '3     *6   +(   +0   ,+
                                                   !                          !
              +0    1'   15 2%1    5*    '* 2%1    5*    *0   5*   1(    1(   *6    *-   15   ,+
                                                                        "
                                                               %6'

<removed-date>
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '3    '3   *6   5*    4'   '*   1(   '*     +0   5+   '*    1(
              "                                                                               $
              15    *-   1( 2%1     *-   *-   *6   4'    '*   15   '*   5+     +0 2%1    1%   *6
                                   $
<removed-apn>
              +(    *6   15   5*   '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-     13   +0   13   1%
              '&    5*   5*   5+   1%    '&   15   1%    *6   '*   '*   13     5+   13   13   *6
              13    *6   13   *0   13    13   13   '&    13   *-   4*   1%     1%   *6   4*   *6
                                                                        !
              2%1   *-
               !
                     3+ +0.
              !
              '&    5+   '3   *6 2%1     15   1(   4*    '3   15   4*   1'     *-   *6   1(   5+
              13 2%1     '3   '3   '3    '3   '3   '3    '3   15   '3 2%1      +0   15 2%1    ,+
              ,+    1'   '3   '*   *-    '*   '*    1%   13   *6   '*   *6     1% 2%1    15   *-
                                                   !                          !
              15    1%   '* 2%1    15    '*   +(   *6    *-   '*   '3    *0    1%   '3   *-   15
                                                                        "
               *6   '3   '3   4'   1(    1'   1'   *-    *6   15   1%   15     *-   *6   5+    '*
              "                                                                               $
                                                               %6' "

<removed-date>
              *-   ,+   *6   '3    *-   '*   5+   *-    1(   4'   *0   5* 2%1     4'   15   15
                                  $
              15   4*   1(   '3   4*    1'   '3   15    1(   *-   5+   '*   +0    *-   '3 2%1
              4*   '3   4'   '3   *-    '*   '3   5+    +(   '3   1(   *-   4*    *6   *-   ,+
<removed-apn>
              2%1 2%1   5+   '3 2%1     '*   13   4'    5*   *-   15   4*   '3 2%1 2%1      +0
                                                                       !
              *0   5+ 2%1    +0   15 2%1     *- 2%1     4*   1(   15 2%1    13    4*   4*   1(
              !                                                                             "
              *-   '*   5+   1(   4*    +(   +(   5+    5*   '& 2%1    '*   '*    5*   '3   4*
                                  "
              '3   1'   '*   +0   1(    *0   '&   *-    ,+   '*   *6   5*   '*    5+   *6 2%1
                             $                          $
              4*   ,+   13   15   +(    4* 2%1    13    5+   '* 2%1    '*   *-    1%   13   5+
              '*
                   $
                    -/- +%0,'(+
              !     $
              '&   *6   *-   15   4*    15   1(   15    15   '3   13   1%   *-    15   13   *-
              15   *-   +(   '3   *6    1(   *6   *0    *-   '3   '3   '3   '3    15   '3   1%
              2%1 2%1   4*   ,+   15    '3   '3    *6   *-   4*   1%   1%    '*   1(   '*   *6
                                                  !                         !
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              1%    '3   15   *-   15    1%   *-   15   15   '*   '*    *6   '*   '*   '3   *6
                                                                       "
               '*   *6   *0   15   *6    4'   '3   '3   1(   *6   15   '*    *0   4*   15    *-
              "                                                                             $
<removed-apn>
              *6    5+   *0   *-    *6   15   4'   1(   '*   5+   ,+   +(    '* 2%1    4*   ,+
                                   $
              2%1   4'   15   '*   15    4*   1(   '3   4* 2%1    '3   '*    1(   *-   5+   1%
              4*    *-   '* 2%1    4*    '3   4'   *-   *-   '*   '*   13    13   '3   1(   1%
              +(    5+   1%   4*   '3 2%1     5+   '3   '&   +(   +0   4'    5*   *-   15   1'
                                                                       !
              '3    4* 2%1    4*   *0    5+   1%   +0   15   4*   *-   1'    4*   1(   15 2%1
              !                                                                            "
              13    '&   4*   4*   *-    '*   5+   1(   '*   +(   +(   5+    5*   1%   1%   '*
                                   "
              '*    5*   '3   '*   '3    4*   *-   13   1(   *0   *6   '*    *6   *6   '*   5*
                              $                         $
              '*    5+   1( 2%1    '&    ,+   13   15   '*   4* 2%1    13    5+   4* 2%1    1%
              *-    1%   13   5+   '*
                         $
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                                                              %6' $

<removed-date>
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              '&    *6   *-   15   4*    15   1(   15    15   '3   13   1%    *-   15   13   *-
              15    *-   +(   '3   *6    1(   *6   *0    *-   '3   '3   '3    '3   15   '3   1%
<removed-apn>
              2%1 2%1    4*   ,+   15    '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1    4'   15    '*   15   4*   1(
                                                   !                         !
              '3    4* 2%1    '3   '*    1(   *-   5+    1%   4*   *-    '* 2%1    4*   '3   4'
                                                                        "
               *-   *-   '*   '*   13    13   '3   1(    1%   +(   5+   1%    4*   '3 2%1     5+
              "                                                                              $
              '3    '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-   15    1'   '3   4* 2%1     4*   *0   5+   1%
                                   $
              +0    15   4*   *-   1'    4*   1(   15 2%1     13   '&   4*    4*   *-   '*   5+
              1(    '*   +(   +(   5+    5*   1%   1%    '*   '*   5*   '3    '*   '3   4*   *-
              13    1(   *0   *6   '*    *6   *6   '*    5*   '*   5+   1( 2%1     '&   ,+   13
                                                                        !
              15    '*   4* 2%1    13    5+   4* 2%1     1%   *-   1%   13    5+   '*
              !
                     !
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                                                               %6'

<removed-date>
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
               !
               '&   13   4*   +0   4*    '3   '3   '3    *0 2%1     '3   '3    '3    *0 2%1    *-
               15   '*   4*   15   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1     4'    15   '*    15    4*   1(   '3
<removed-apn>
               4* 2%1    '3   '*   1(    *-   5+    1%   4*   *-    '* 2%1      4*   '3   4'   *-
                                                   !                           !
               *-   '*   '*   13   13    '3   1(   1%    +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1     5+   '3
                                                                         "
               '&   +(   +0   4'   5*    *-   15   1'    '3   4* 2%1     4*    *0    5+   1%    +0
              "                                                                                $
               15   4*   *-   1'    4*   1(   15 2%1     13   '&    4*   4*    *-    '*   5+   1(
                                   $
               '*   +(   +(   5+   5*    1%   1%   '*    '*   5*    '3   '*    '3    4*   *-   13
               1(   *0   *6   '*   *6    *6   '*   5*    '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&    ,+   13   15
               '*   4* 2%1    13   5+    4* 2%1    1%    *-   1%    13   5+    '*
                                                                         !
                     -/- +%0,'(+
                    >$?..> ! ?
               !
              8%68%%6 %&6 6&6 &&6 8%6 %88 8%6 6&8 &&8 %&& &8& 8&6 &&6 8&8 &66                        !
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
                       '& 2%1   '3   1(   4*   1( 2%1   4'    1'   '*   '3   '3   '3   *0
              %&8 &8& 66& 688 &%8 666 6%8 %&8 6&6 %&6 %88 8%6 &8& 88% 6%8 &88
               1' '* 15 1% 5* 15 +0 1' 2%1 '& 4* 1( '* *- +0 '*
              8&6 68& 6&6 &8& 8&6 668 6%6 %66 688 %88 %&8 %%8 &68 %%6 &88 %68               !
               '3 1% 2%1 '* '3 15 13 *6 1% 4* 1' +( 5+ 5+ '* '*
                                                  !                   !
<removed-apn>
              8%6 %6& 6&& &&% &%8 %68 &88 %%8 %%& %%6 %%8 &%8 &&% 68& &66 &%8
               1( '* 2%1 '3 5* '* '* +( +( 5+ +( 5* '3 1% *0 5*
                                                                  "
              8%6 8%6 %%% 88% 66% 8%6 88& 88& %%6 8&6 8&8 %&& &%8 &66 68% &8&               !
               1( 1( 5+ *- 15 1( *- *- 5+ '3 '3 1' 5* *0 1% '*
                      "
              %88 866 6%% &88 666 6&8 88& 6%8 86% &&8 %6& 668 %68 666 &8& 666               $
               4* *6 13 '* 15 2%1 *- +0 *6 4' '* 15 '* 15 '* 15
                  $                   $
              %8% 6%& &&8 %8& 8&8 %88 %&8 %68 %68 8&6 8%6 68& 6%% 6%& 6&6 68%
               4* +0 4' 4* '3 4* 1' '* '* '3 1( 1% 13 +0 2%1 1%
              6&& &%& &%8 &6& 8%6 8%% &%& &%& %6& %8& 88& 888 %8% 6&6 8&& 8%6               $
              2%1 5* 5* 5+ 1( 1( 5* 5* '* 4* *- *- 4* 2%1 '3 1(
              88& 86% %8% 8%% %88 &88 &88 88% &%8 68& 666 88% 6&% 66& 8&& &68               !
               *- *6 4* 1( 4* '* '* *- 5* 1% 15 *- 2%1 15 '3 5+
                                                                   !
              &68 %68 %68 &68 &&8 8&8 &68 %8% 8%6 888 88% %8% &68 %&6 8&& 88&               !$
               5+ '* '* 5+ 4' '3 5+ 4* 1( *- *- 4* 5+ '& '3 *-
                       !
              8&6 &6& 6&& 666 6%6 6&8 %8& 8&8 &&6 %&& &%& &86 &&6 6%6 66& &&6
               '3 5+ 2%1 15 13 2%1 4* '3 '3 1' 5* '* '3 13 15 '3
                   "                   "
              8%6 668 88% 66% &&% %%& &%%6%6%8&& 6%8&&&&68& 66%&8&8&&&
               1( 15 *- 15 '3 +(
                                   $
              &&6&%6%%6% &&%&&%%%68 %%%%&6&&6& %%%6%&888& &%6%6%8%&& 6&8%66%6&&             "
              &&&6&6&&%8 %66%%88&68 %&6&&&8%8% &66%8%8%&8 %8%&6%886% 688%%%&%6%             "
              &&&%&8&&&% 8&8&
                                                        %6'

<removed-date>
                     $
                     -/- +%0,'(+
              !
              '& 2%1     '3   1(   4*    1( 2%1    4'    1'   '*    '3   '3    '3    *0   1'   '*
<removed-apn>
              15    1%   5*   15   +0    1' 2%1    '&    4*   1(    '*   *-    +0    '*   '3   1%
              2%1   '*   '3   15   13    *6   1%    4*   1'   +(    5+   5+     '*   '*   1(   '*
                                                   !                           !
              2%1   '3   5*   '*   '*    +(   +(   5+    +(   5*    '3    1%   *0    5*   1(   1(
                                                                         "
               5+   *-   15   1(   *-    *-   5+   '3    '3   1'    5*   *0    1%    '*   4*    *6
              "                                                                                $
              13    '*   15 2%1     *-   +0   *6   4'    '*   15    '*   15    '*    15   4*   +0
                                   $
              4'    4*   '3   4*   1'    '*   '*   '3    1(   1%    13   +0 2%1      1% 2%1    5*
              5*    5+   1(   1(   5*    5*   '*   4*    *-   *-    4* 2%1     '3    1(   *-   *6
              4*    1(   4*   '*   '*    *-   5*   1%    15   *- 2%1     15    '3    5+   5+   '*
                                                                         !
              '*    5+   4'   '3   5+    4*   1(   *-    *-   4*    5+   '&    '3    *-   '3   5+
              !                                                                                "
              2%1   15   13 2%1    4*    '3   '3   1'    5*   '*    '3   13    15    '3   1(   15
                                   "
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              *-    15   '3   +(
                              $
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
<removed-apn>
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              +0    1'   1(   '&   4*    1(   '*   *-    '*   '* 2%1     '*    1%    '* 2%1    15
              +0    *6 2%1    4*   1'    4*   5+   *6    1%   '*    1(   15    1'    '*   '*   *0
              '3    1%   *0   5*   1(    1(   5+    *-   15   5+    1%   *-     5+   '3   '3   1'
                                                   !                           !
              5*    1%   1%   '*   '*    '3   1(   '*    15 2%1     *-    '*   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                         "
               '*   15   '*   15   4*    +0   4'   4*    '3   4*    1'   '*    '*    '3   1(    *-
              "                                                                                $
              13    +0   4'   1%    4*   5*   5*   5+    1(   1(    1%   +(    '*    4'   *-   *-
                                   $
              4* 2%1     '3   *-   4*    *6   4*
                     !
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              !       !
              +0    1' 1(     '&   4*    1(   '*   *-    '*   '*    '3   '*    1%    '* 2%1    15
              +0    *6 2%1    4*   1'    4*   5+   *6    1%   '*    1(   15    1'    '*   +(   5*
<removed-apn>
              '3    1%   *0   4'   1(    1(   5+    *-   15   5+    1%   *-     5+   '*   '3   1'
                                                   !                           !
              5*    1%   1%   '*   '*    '3   1(   '*    15 2%1     *-    '*   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                         "
               '*   15   '*   15   4*    +0   4'   4*    '3   4*    1'   '*    '*    '3   1(    *-
              "                                                                                $
              13    +0   4'   1%    4*   5*   5*   5+    1(   1(    5*   +(    '*    5*   *-   *-
                                   $
              4* 2%1     '3   ,+   4*    1(   4*
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              +0    1'   1(   '&   4*    1(   '*   *-    '*   '*    '3   '*    1%    '* 2%1    15
              +0    *6 2%1    4*   1'    4*   5+   *6    1%   '*    1(   15    1'    *6   +(   +0
              '3    15   *0   5*   1(    1(   5+    *-   15   5+    1%   *-     5+   *6   '3   1'
                                                   !                           !
                                                              %6'    !

<removed-date>
              5*    1%   1%   '*   '*    '3   1(   '*    15 2%1     *-    '*   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                         "
               '*   15   '*   15   4*    13   4'   4*    '3   4*    1'   '*    '*    '3   1(    *-
              "                                                                                $
              13    +0   4'   1%    4*   5*   5*   5+    '3   1(    ,+   +(    '*    5*   *-   *-
<removed-apn>
                                   $
              4* 2%1     '3   ,+   4*    *6   4*   4*    *-   *6    13   1%    +0 2%1
                     "
                     $
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !       "
              +0    1' 1(     '&   4*    1(   '*   *-    '*   '*    '3   '*    1%    '* 2%1    15
              +0    *6 2%1    4*   1'    4*   5+   1(    1%   '*    1(   +0    1'    '*   +(   5*
              '3    +(   *0   5*   1(    1(   5+    *-   15   5+    1%   *-     5+   '3   '3   1'
                                                   !                           !
              5*    +0   1%   '*   +(    '3   13   4*    15 2%1     *-    '*   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                         "
               '*   15   '*   15   4*    +0   4'   4*    4'   4*    1'   '*    '*    '3   1(    *-
              "                                                                                $
              13    +0   1'   1%    4*   5*   5*   5+    1(   1(    5*   +0    +(    '3   *-   *-
                                   $
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              4* 2%1
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
<removed-apn>
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              +0    1'   1(   '&   1'    1(   '*   *-    '*   4'    '3   '*    1%    '* 2%1    15
              +0    *6 2%1    '*   1'    1'   5+   *0    1%   '*    13   15    1'    '*   '*   +(
              '3    1%   *0   5*   '3    1(   5+    *-   15   5+    '*   *-     5+   '3   4'   '3
                                                   !                           !
              5*    +0   1%   5+   +0    '3   ,+   *-    15 2%1     '*    '*   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                         "
               *6   15   '*   15   4*    +0   4'   4*    '3   4*    1'   1'    '*    '3   5+    *-
              "                                                                                $
              13    +0   4'   1%    1%   5*   5*   5+    5+   1(    +0   4'    '*    5*   *-   *-
                                   $
              4*    15   '3   1(   1%
                     $
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
                                                              %6'    "

<removed-date>
              !       $
              +0    1' 2%1    '&   4*    1(   '*   *-    '3   '*    '3   *- 2%1      4*   *-   15
              13    *-   1%   '*   1'    '*   5+   *6    '*   '*    1(   '*    '3    '3   ,+   '*
<removed-apn>
              +(    15   5*   +(   5*    '3   +0    *0   5*   '3    1(   5+     *-   15   1(   '*
                                                   !                           !
              *-    1(   '3   '3   1'    5*   '3   15    '*   +(    *6    1%   '*    15 2%1    *-
                                                                         "
               +0   *6   4'   '*   15    '*   15   '*    15   4*    +0   4'    4*    '3   5+    1'
              "                                                                                $
              '*    *6 2%1    13    1%   13   +0 2%1     15 2%1     5*   5*    5+    '&   1(   1%
                                   $
              '3    1(   4*   *-   *-    4* 2%1 2%1      1(   *-    '3   4*    13    4*   '*   '*
              *0    15   5+   *- 2%1     1%   ,+   '&    5+   5+    '3   '*    15    13   1(   '3
              '*    *6 2%1    '*   13    '*   1%
                         "
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              +0 2%1 2%1      '&   4*    1(   '*   *-    '3   '*    '3   *- 2%1      4*   '3   15
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              1(    *-   1%   '*   1'    '*   5+   *6    '*   '*    1(   '*    '3 2%1     5*   '*
              +0    15   +(   4*   5*    '3   +(    *0   4'   1(    1(   *6     *-   15   1(   '*
                                                   !                           !
              *-    *6   *6   '3   1'    5*   5+ 2%1     '*   +(    *6    +0   '*    15 2%1    *-
<removed-apn>
                                                                         "
               +0   *6   4'   '*   15    '*   15   '*    15   4*    +0   4'    4*    '3   5+    1'
              "                                                                                $
              '*    *6 2%1    13    1%   13   +0 2%1     15 2%1     5*   5*    5+    '&   1(   15
                                   $
              4*    ,+   *0   *-   *-    4* 2%1 2%1      1(   *-
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              13    1' 2%1    '3   4*    1(   '*   *-    1%   4*    '3   '*    '3    '*   *-   15
              13    *6   1%   4*   '3    '*   5+   *6    1%   '*    1(   '* 2%1      '*   '*   5*
              '3    1%   *0   5*   1(    1(   5+    *-   15   1(    1%   *-     *6   '3   '3   1'
                                                   !                           !
              5*    +0   1%   '*   +(    *6   1%   4*    15   1'    *-    1%   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                         "
                                                              %6'    $

<removed-date>
               '*   15   '*   15   4*   +0   4'   4*    '3   4*    1'   '*    '*    '3   13    *-
              "                                                                               $
              13    +0   4'   1% 2%1    5*   5*   5+    1(   1(    *6   '*    +(    *0   *-   *-
                                 $
              4* 2%1     1'   *-   ,+   13   4*   5+    4*   *-    4*   *6    *-    '* 2%1    4'
<removed-apn>
              4*    *6   '3   '3   5*   1(   '3   '3    *-   '3    1(   4*    1%    '*   15 2%1
              1%    4*   1(   5+
                         $
                     *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              13    1' 2%1    '3   4*   1(   '*   *-    1%   4*    '3   '*    '3    '*   *-   15
              13    *6   1%   4*   '3   '*   5+   *6    1%   '*    1(   15 2%1      '*   '*   5*
              '3    1%   *0   5*   1(   1(   5+    *-   15   1(    1%   *-     *6   '3   '3   1'
                                                  !                           !
              5*    +0   1%   '*   +(   *6   1%   4*    15   1'    *-    1%   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                        "
               '*   15   *-   15   4*   +0   4'   4*    '3   4*    1'   '*    '*    '3   13    *-
              "                                                                               $
              13    +0   4'   1% 2%1    5*   5*   5+    1(   1(    *6   '*    +(    *0   ,+   *-
                                                             %6'

<removed-date>
                                   $
              4* 2%1     1'   *-   ,+    13   4*   5+    4*   *-    4*   *6    *-    '* 2%1    4'
              4*    *6   '3   '3   5*    1(
<removed-apn>           *&,7,8,%1         '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              13    4*   4*   '3   4*    1(   '*   *-    1%   4'    '&   '*    1%    4*   *-   15
              +0    5+ 2%1    +(   1'    '*   5+   5+    1%   '*    1(   +0    1'    +0   +0   +0
              '&    +(   *0   5*   1(    1(   5+    *-   15   13    1%   1%     1'   4'   1'   1'
                                                   !                           !
              1(    13   1%   4*   4*    '3 2%1    *-    15   1'    *-    *-   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                         "
               '*   15   5*   15   4*    +0   4'   4*    '3   4*    1'   +(    +(    1'   13    '*
              "                                                                                $
              13    +0   1%   1%    5*   5*   4'   5+    '3   1(    ,+   +0    +(    4'   *-   '3
                                   $
              4* 2%1     1'   ,+   *- 2%1     1(   5+    *-   *-    '*   '*    '3    '*   15   1'
              1%    '*   1%
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
                         $
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
<removed-apn>
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              +0 2%1 2%1      '&   4*    1(   '*   *-    1%   4'    '3   '* 2%1      4*   *-   15
              13    5+ 2%1    4*   1'    4*   5+   1(    1%   '*    13   15    1'    15   +(   5*
              '3    5*   *0   5*   1(    1(   5+    *-   +0   1(    1%   *-     5+   '3   '3   1'
                                                   !                           !
              5+    5*   1%   '*   1(    '*   1'   '*    15 2%1     *-    '*   *6    4'   '*   15
                                                                         "
               '*   15   '*   15   4*    +0   4'   4*    4'   4*    1'   '*    '*    '3   13    1%
              "                                                                                $
              13    +0   1%   1%    4*   5*   5*   5+    1(   1(    15   +(    5+    ,+   *-   ,+
                                   $
              4* 2%1     '3   1(   *-    5+   4*   5+    1'   '*    '*   1%    *0    *6   +(   *6
              13    4*   13   1(   5*    *- 2%1    4'    '&   1'    '3   1%    15    1% 2%1    15
              13    1'   1'   5*   1(    1'   *-   '*    ,+   '&    1%   ,+    '*    1%   13   '3
                                                                         !
              4*    *-   5+   '*   1(    5+   '3   4*    '3   '*    '*   '3    *-    4*
              !
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
                     !
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
<removed-apn>
               !      !
               +0   1' 2%1    '3   4*    1(   '*   *-    1%   '*    '3   1% 2%1      '*   *-   15
               1(   *6   1%   4*   1'    4*   5+   *6    1%   '*    13   '* 2%1      '*   4'   '3
               15   1'   +(   '3   1'    ,+   *0    5*   1(   1(    5+   *-     15   1(   *-   *-
                                                   !                           !
               5+   '3   '3   1'   5*    1(   1%   '*    +(   5+    +0    4*   15 2%1     *-   1%
                                                                         "
               *6   4'   '*   15   '*    15   '*   15    4*   +0    4'   4*    '3    4*   1'    +(
              "                                                                                $
               *- 2%1    13   1%    +(   +0   4*   1%    +(   5*    5*   5+    '3    1(   '*   5+
                                   $
               +(   4'   *-   *-   4* 2%1     '3
                    ! $
                     -/- +%0,'(+
                    > ?..>!    ?
               !
              6&6 %6% %66 6&& &&& 6&& 8%6 8%% 6%8 %%& 66% 6%6 8&8 %8% 8&6 &66                        !$
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              2%1   *6   *6 2%1    4' 2%1    1(   1(    +0   +(    15   13   '3    4*   '3   *0
              &66 %86 &&8 668 8%% 666 %88 %%6 6&6 6%% %&8 %%% 86% %8& 6&6 68&                      "
               *0 4* 4' 15 1( 15 4* 5+ 2%1 13 1' 5+ *6 4* 2%1 1%
              68% 88% &8& 6&8 &&8 %&8 &&8 886 88% &8& 6%& 6%6 8%6 &&6 %%% &8&                     !!
               1% *- '* 2%1 4' 1' 4' *- *- '* +0 13 1( '3 5+ '*
                                          !                   !
<removed-apn>
              66% %8& 688 &8& 6&& 6&6 &68 8&6 8&6 %%& %%8 &&8 &%& 888 %6% 6%6
               15 4* 1% '* 2%1 2%1 5+ '3 '3 +( +( 4' 5* *- *6 13
                                                          "
              688 %%% 6&% 8%6 &66 %%6 6&6 6%& %%8 688 8&8 8%% &86 66& %%8 &88                     !
               1% 5+ 2%1 1( *0 5+ 2%1 +0 +( 1% '3 1( '* 15 +( '*
              "                                                           $
              8%6 6%6 %6& 6&8 %8% 6%6 8%6 6%8 %68 %%6 6%8 %68 %88 &%8 %68 8&8                     $$
               1( 13 '* 2%1 4* 13 1( +0 '* 5+ +0 '* 4* 5* '* '3
                              $
              %68 %68 %88 8&6 %86 8&6 %68 %%% 68% 6%8 &%8 6%6 %%% 8%8 %%% 8&8                      "
               '* '* 4* '3 4* '3 '* 5+ 1% +0 5* 13 5+ ,+ 5+ '3
              &%8 688 &68 6%% 6&8 %88 8%& 8%6 668 8&6 %68 &86 888 6&8 %8% %%6                     $!
               5* 1% 5+ 13 2%1 4* ,+ 1( 15 '3 '* '* *- 2%1 4* 5+
              %68 &&8 %%8 %66 66% 6%6 &6& &%6                                                     ! $
               '* 4' +( *6 15 13 5+
                     "
                     -/- +%0,'(+
               !      "
              2%1   *6 *6 2%1      4' 2%1    1(   1(    +0   +(    15   13   '3    4*   '3   *0
               *0   4*   4'   15   1(   15   4*   5+ 2%1     13    1'   5+   *6    4* 2%1    1%
               1%   *-   '* 2%1    4'   1'   4'    *-   *-   '*    +0   13    1(   '3   5+   '*
                                                  !                          !
                                                             %6'

<removed-date>
              15    4*   1%   '* 2%1 2%1      5+   '3    '3   +(    +(    4'   5*    *-   *6   13
                                                                         "
               1%   5+ 2%1    1(   *0    5+ 2%1    +0    +(   1%    '3   1(    '*    15   +(    '*
              "                                                                                $
<removed-apn>
              1(    13   '* 2%1     4*   13   1(   +0    '*   5+    +0   '*    4*    5*   '*   '3
                                   $
              '*    '*   4*   '3   4*    '3   '*   5+    1%   +0    5*   13    5+    ,+   5+   '3
              5*    1%   5+   13 2%1     4*   ,+   1(    15   '3    '*   '*    *- 2%1     4*   5+
              '*    4'   +(   *6   15    13   5+
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              *0    4*   4'   15   1(    15   4*   5+ 2%1     13    1'   5+    *6    4* 2%1    1%
              1%    *-   '* 2%1    4'    1'   4'   *-    *-   '*    +0   13    1(    '3   5+   '*
              15    4*   1%   '* 2%1 2%1      5+    '3   '3   +(    +(   4'     5*   *-   *6   13
                                                   !                           !
              1%    5+ 2%1    1(   *0    5+ 2%1    +0    +(   1%    '3    1(   '*    15   +(   '*
                                                                         "
                                                              %6'    !

<removed-date>
               1(   13   '* 2%1    4*    13   1(   +0    '*   5+    +0   '*    4*    5*   '*    '3
              "                                                                                $
              '*    '*   4*   '3    4*   '3   '*   5+    1%   +0    5*   13    5+    ,+   5+   '3
                                   $
              5*    1%   5+   13 2%1     4*   ,+   1(    15   '3    '*   '*    *- 2%1     4*   5+
<removed-apn>
              '*    4'   +(   *6   15    13   5+
                     $
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !       $
              5*    4* 4'     15   1(    15   4*   5+    '3   13    1'   5+    *6    4* 2%1    1%
              1%    *-   '* 2%1    4'    1'   4'   *-    *-   '*    +0   13    1(    '3   5+   '*
              15    4*   1%   '* 2%1 2%1      5+    '3   '3   +(    +(   4'     5*   *-   *6   13
                                                   !                           !
              1%    5+ 2%1    1(   *0    5+ 2%1    +0    +(   1%    '3    1(   '*    15   +(   '*
                                                                         "
               1(   13   '* 2%1    4*    13   1(   +0    '*   5+    +0   '*    4*    5*   '*    '3
              "                                                                                $
              '*    '*   4*   '3    4*   '3   '*   5+    1%   +0    5*   13    5+    ,+   5+   '3
                                   $
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              5*    1%   5+   13 2%1     4*   ,+   1(    15   '3    '*   '*    *- 2%1     4*   5+
              '*    4'   +(   *6   15    13   5+
<removed-apn>
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              4'    4*   4'   15   *-    15   4*   5+ 2%1     +0    1'   5+    *6    4* 2%1    1%
              1%    *-   '* 2%1    4'    1'   4'   *-    *-   '*    +0   13    1(    '3   5+   '*
              15    4*   1%   '* 2%1 2%1      5+    '3   '3   +(    +(   4'     5*   *-   *6   13
                                                   !                           !
              1%    5+ 2%1    1(   *0    5+ 2%1    +0    +(   1%    '3    1(   '*    15   +(   '*
                                                                         "
               1(   13   '* 2%1    4*    13   1(   +0    '*   5+    +0   '*    4*    5*   '*    '3
              "                                                                                $
              '*    '*   4*   '3    4*   '3   '*   5+    1%   +0    5*   13    5+    ,+   5+   '3
                                   $
              5*    1%   5+   13 2%1     4*   ,+   1(    15   '3    '*   '*    *- 2%1     4*   5+
              '*    4'   +(   *6   15    13   5+
                                                              %6'    "

<removed-date>
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
<removed-apn>
              '3    4*   4'   15   15    15   4*   5+ 2%1     13    1'   5+    *6    4* 2%1    1%
              1%    *-   '* 2%1    4'    1'   4'   *-    *-   '*    +0   13    1(    '3   5+   '*
              15    4*   1%   '* 2%1 2%1      5+    '3   '3   +(    +(   4'     5*   *-   *6   13
                                                   !                           !
              1%    5+ 2%1    1(   *0    5+ 2%1    +0    +(   1%    '3    1(   '*    15   +(   '*
                                                                         "
               1(   13   '* 2%1    4*    13   1(   +0    '*   5+    +0   '*    4*    5*   '*    '3
              "                                                                                $
              '*    '*   4*   '3    4*   '3   '*   5+    1%   +0    5*   13    5+    ,+   5+   '3
                                   $
              5*    1%   5+   13 2%1     4*   ,+   1(    15   '3    '*   '*    *- 2%1     4*   5+
              '*    4'   +(   *6   15    13   5+
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              !
              1'    4*   4'   15   1(    15   4*   *6    '3   13    1'   5+    *6    4* 2%1    1%
              1%    *-   '* 2%1    4'    1'   4'   *-    *-   '*    +0   13    1(    '3   5+   '*
              15    4*   1%   '* 2%1 2%1      5+    '3   '3   +(    +(   4'     5*   *-   *6   13
<removed-apn>
                                                   !                           !
              1%    5+ 2%1    1(   *0    5+ 2%1    +0    +(   1%    '3    1(   '*    15   +(   '*
                                                                         "
               1(   13   '* 2%1    4*    13   1(   +0    '*   5+    +0   '*    4*    5*   '*    '3
              "                                                                                $
              '*    '*   4*   '3    4*   '3   '*   5+    1%   +0    5*   13    5+    ,+   5+   '3
                                   $
              5*    1%   5+   13 2%1     4*   ,+   1(    15   '3    '*   '*    *- 2%1     4*   5+
              '*    4'   +(   *6   15    13   5+
                         !
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              '&    13   4*   +0   4*    '3   '3   '3    *0 2%1     '3   '3    '3    *0 2%1    *-
              15    '*   4*   15 2%1     *6   *6 2%1     4' 2%1     1(   1(    +0    +(   15   13
                                                              %6'    $

<removed-date>
              '3    4*   '3   *0   *0    4*   4'    15   1(   15    4*   5+ 2%1     13   1'   5+
                                                   !                        !
              *6    4* 2%1    1%   1%    *-   '* 2%1     4'   1'    4'    *-   *-   '*   +0   13
                                                                         "
               1(   '3   5+   '*   15    4*   1%   '* 2%1 2%1       5+   '3    '3   +(   +(    4'
              "                                                                               $
<removed-apn>
              5*    *-   *6   13    1%   5+ 2%1    1(    *0   5+ 2%1     +0    +(   1%   '3   1(
                                   $
              15    +(   '*   1(   13    '* 2%1    4*    13   1(    +0   '*    5+   +0   '*   4*
              5*    '*   '3   '*   '*    4*   '3   4*    '3   '*    5+   1%    +0   5*   13   5+
              ,+    5+   '3   5*   1%    5+   13 2%1     4*   ,+    1(   15    '3   '*   '*   *-
                                                                         !
              2%1   4*   5+   '*   4'    +(   *6   15    13   5+
               !
                         $
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              '&    13   4*   +0   4*    '3   '3   '3    *0 2%1     '3   '3    '3   *0 2%1    *-
              15    '*   4*   15   *0    4*   4'   15    1(   15    4*   5+ 2%1     13   1'   5+
              *6    4* 2%1    1%   1%    *-   '* 2%1     4'   1'    4'   *-    *-   '*   +0   13
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
                                                   !                           !
              1(    '3   5+   '*   15    4*   1%   '* 2%1 2%1       5+    '3   '3    +(   +(   4'
                                                                         "
               5*   *-   *6   13   1%    5+ 2%1    1(    *0   5+ 2%1     +0    +(    1%   '3    1(
              "                                                                                $
<removed-apn>
              15    +(   '*   1(    13   '* 2%1    4*    13   1(    +0   '*    5+    +0   '*   4*
                                   $
              5*    '*   '3   '*   '*    4*   '3   4*    '3   '*    5+   1%    +0    5*   13   5+
              ,+    5+   '3   5*   1%    5+   13 2%1     4*   ,+    1(   15    '3    '*   '*   *-
              2%1   4*   5+   '*   4'    +(   *6   15    13   5+
                     !
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<        5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !       !
              '&    13 4*     +0   4*    '3   '3   '3    *0 2%1     '3   '3    '3    *0 2%1    *-
              15    '*   4*   15   4*    5+ 2%1    13    1'   5+    *6   4* 2%1      1%   1%   *-
              '* 2%1     4'   1'   4'    *-   *-    '*   +0   13    1(   '3     5+   '*   15   4*
                                                   !                           !
              1%    '* 2%1 2%1     5+    '3   '3   +(    +(   4'    5*    *-   *6    13   1%   5+
                                                                         "
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              2%1   1(   *0   5+ 2%1     +0   +(   1%    '3   1(    15   +(    '*    1(   13    '*
              "                                                                                $
              2%1   4*   13   1(    +0   '*   5+   +0    '*   4*    5*   '*    '3    '*   '*   4*
                                   $
<removed-apn>
              '3    4*   '3   '*   5+    1%   +0   5*    13   5+    ,+   5+    '3    5*   1%   5+
              13 2%1     4*   ,+   1(    15   '3   '*    '*   *- 2%1     4*    5+    '*   4'   +(
              *6    15   13   5+
                     !
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              '&    13   4*   +0   4*    '3   '3   '3    *0 2%1     '3   '3    '3    *0 2%1    *-
              15    '*   4*   15   1(    *- 2%1    '3    ,+   1(    *-   *-    1%    '&   '*   '*
              1%    '3   15   4*   4*    1'   *6    '3   4*   5+    4*   '3     *6   +(   +0   ,+
                                                   !                           !
              +0    1'   15 2%1    5*    '* 2%1    5*    *0   5*    1(    1(   *6    *-   15   ,+
                                                                         "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '3    '3   *6   5*    4'   '*    1(   '*    +0    5+   '*    1(
              "                                                                                $
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              15    *-   1( 2%1     *-   *-   *6   4'   '*   15    '*   5+   +0 2%1    1%   *6
                                   $
              +(    *6   15   5*   '3    '*   1'   '*   13   '3    1(   *-   13   +0   13   1%
              '&    5*   5*   5+   1%    '&   15   1%   *6   '*    '* 2%1    4*   ,+ 2%1    4'
<removed-apn>
              15    '*   15   4*   1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3   '*    1(   *-   5+   1%   4*   *-
                                                                        !
              '* 2%1     4*   '3   4'    *-   *-   '*   '*   13    13   '3   1(   1%   +(   5+
              !                                                                             "
              1%    4*   '3 2%1    5+    '3   '&   +(   +0   4'    5*   *-   15   1'   '3   4*
                                   "
              2%1   4*   *0   5+   1%    +0   15   4*   *-   1'    4*   1(   15 2%1    13   '&
                              $                         $
              4*    4*   *-   '*   5+    1(   '*   +(   +(   5+    5*   1%   1%   '*   '*   5*
              '3    '*   '3   4*   *-    13   1(   *0   *6   '*    *6   *6   '*   5*   '*   5+
              1( 2%1     '&   ,+   13    15   '*   4* 2%1    13    5+   4* 2%1    1%   *-   1%
                                                                                            !
              13    5+   '*
                     "
                     !
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                                                             %6'

<removed-date>
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !       "
              '&    13 4*     +0   4*    '3   '3   '3    *0 2%1     '3   '3    '3    *0 2%1    *-
              15    '*   4*   15   1(    *- 2%1    '3    ,+   1(    *-   *-    1%    '&   '*   '*
<removed-apn>
              1%    '3   15   4*   4*    1'   *6    '3   4*   5+    4*   '3     *6   +(   +0   ,+
                                                   !                           !
              +0    1'   15 2%1    5*    '* 2%1    5*    *0   5*    1(    1(   *6    *-   15   ,+
                                                                         "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '3    '3   *6   5*    4'   '*    1(   '*    +0    5+   '*    1(
              "                                                                                $
              15    *-   1( 2%1     *-   *-   *6   4'    '*   15    '*   5+    +0 2%1     1%   *6
                                   $
              +(    *6   15   5*   '3    '*   1'   '* 2%1     4*    ,+ 2%1     4'    15   '*   15
              4*    1(   '3   4* 2%1     '3   '*   1(    1( 2%1     1(   '3 2%1      1(   '* 2%1
              4*    ,+ 2%1    4'   15    '*   15   4*    1(   '3    4* 2%1     '3    '*   1(   1(
                                                                        !
              2%1   1(   '3 2%1    1(
               !
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
                    0'0&,=';
              !
              '*    '*   1%   '3   15   5+   4*   1'   *6   '3    4*
                     $
<removed-apn>
                     *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                    0'0&,=';
              !       $
              4*    4* 1'     *6   '3   5+   5+   4*   '3   *6    +(
                     *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                    0'0&,=';
              !
              '*    '* 2%1    4*   ,+   5+   4'   15   '*   15    4*
                    !
                     *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                    0'0&,=';
               !     !
              2%1   '3   '*   1(   *-   5+   1%   4*   *-   '* 2%1
                                                            %6'    !

<removed-date>
                   !
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
<removed-apn>
              !     !
              *-   5+   1%   4*   *-   5+ 2%1    4*   '3   4'    *-
                   !
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !     !
              5+   1%   4*   *-   '*   5+   4*   '3   4'   *-    *-
                   !
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !     !
              4*   '3   4'   *-   *-   5+   '*   13   13   '3    1(
                   !!
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                                                           %6'

<removed-date>
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !     !!
              '*   13 13     '3   1(   5+   +(   5+   1%   4*    '3
                   !
<removed-apn>
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !     !
              *-   15   1'   '3   4*   5+   4*   *0   5+   1%    +0
                   !"
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !     !"
              *-   1' 4*     1(   15   5+   13   '&   4*   4*    *-
                   !
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !     !
              4*   4*   *-   '*   5+   5+   '*   +(   +(   5+    5*
                                                           %6'    "

<removed-date>
                   !$
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
<removed-apn>
              !     !$
              *-   '* 5+     1(   '*   5+   +(   5+   5*   1%    1%
                   !
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !     !
              ,+   13   15   '*   4*   5+   13   5+   4* 2%1     1%
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !
              4*   5+   13   5+   4*   5+   1%   *-   1%   13    5+
                   !
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                                                           %6'

<removed-date>
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !
              15   4'   '3   15
<removed-apn>
                   !
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<   5(&4'&,8
                   0'0&,=';
              !
              15   '* 2%1    13
                    3+ +0.
              !
              '&   13   4*   +0   4*   '3   '3   '3   *0 2%1     '3   '3   '3   *0 2%1    *-
              15   '*   4*   15
                    !
                     "
                    -/- +%0,'(+
              !      !
              1(   *- 2%1    '3   ,+   1(   *-   *-   1%   '&    '*   '*   1%   '3   15   4*
              4*   1'   *6   '3   4*   5+   4*   '3   *6   +(    +0   ,+   +0   1'   15 2%1
                                                           %6'    $

<removed-date>
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-    15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                           !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+    '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                         "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1     1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                                $
<removed-apn>
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0    13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '*   13    5+   13    13   *6    13    *6   13   *0
              13    13   13   '&   13    *-   4*   1%    1%   *6    4*   *6 2%1      *-
                         "
                     -/- +%0,'(+
              !
              '3    '3   *6   *-   4*    1%   1%   '*    1(   '*    *6   1%    '3    15   *-   15
              1%    *-   15   15   '*    '*   *6   '*    '*   '3    *6   '*    *6    *0   15   *6
              4'    '3   '3   1(   *6    15   '*    *0   4*   15    *-   *6     5+   *0   *-   *6
                                                   !                           !
              15    4'   1(   '*   5+    ,+   +(   '* 2%1     4*    ,+ 2%1     4'    15   '*   15
                                                                       "
               4*   1(   '3   4* 2%1     '3   '*   1(    *-   5+    1%   4*    *-    '* 2%1     4*
              "                                                                                $
              '3    4'   *-   *-    '*   '*   13   13    '3   1(    1%   +(    5+    1%   4*   '3
                                   $
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              2%1   5+   '3   '&   +(   +0   4'   5*    *-   15   1'   '3    4* 2%1     4*   *0
              5+    1%   +0   15   4*   *-   1'   4*    1(   15 2%1    13    '&    4*   4*   *-
<removed-apn>
              '*    5+   1(   '*   +(   +(   5+   5*    1%   1%   '*   '*    5*    '3   '*   '3
                                                                       !
              4*    *-   13   1(   *0   *6   '*   *6    *6   '*   5*   '*    5+    1( 2%1    '&
              !                                                                              "
              ,+    13   15   '*   4* 2%1    13   5+    4* 2%1    1%   *-    1%    13   5+   '*
                                   "
                     "
                     *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !       "
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+   1(   *-   *-    1%   '&   '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*   5+   4*   '3    *6   +(   +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0   5*   1(    1(   *6   *-   15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                  !                          !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'   '*   1(   '*    +0   5+   '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                       "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*   15   '*   5+    +0 2%1    1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                              $
                                                             %6' !

<removed-date>
              '3   '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-   13   +0   13   1%    '&   5*   5*   5+
                                  $
              1%   '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1    4*   ,+ 2%1    4'    15   '*   15   4*
              1(   '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-   5+   1%   4*   *-    '* 2%1    4*   '3
<removed-apn>
              4'   *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3   1(   1%   +(   5+    1%   4*   '3 2%1
                                                                      !
              5+   '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-   15   1'   '3   4* 2%1     4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                            "
              1%   +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(   15 2%1    13   '&    4*   4*   *-   '*
                                  "
              5+   1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%   1%   '*   '*   5*    '3   '*   '3   4*
                             $                         $
              *-   13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6   '*   5*   '*   5+    1( 2%1    '&   ,+
              13   15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1    1%   *-   1%    13   5+   '*
                    *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                   0-150'0&,=';
              !
              1(   *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-   1%   '&   '*   '*    1%   '3   15   5+
                                                            %6' !

<removed-date>
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(   +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-   15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                          !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+   '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                        "
<removed-apn>
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1    1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                               $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0   13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1    4'    15    '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-    5+   1%   4*   *-    '* 2%1     4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3    1(   1%   +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                                        !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-    15   1'   '3   4* 2%1      4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                               "
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(    15 2%1    13   '&    4*    4*   *-   '*
                                   "
              5+    1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%    1%   '*   '*   5*    '3    '*   '3   4*
                              $                          $
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6    '*   5*   '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&   ,+
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1     1%   *-   1%    13    5+   '*
                                                              %6' !

<removed-date>
                     $
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
<removed-apn>
              !       $
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-    1%   '&   '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   5+    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(   +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-   15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                          !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+   '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                        "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1    1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                               $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0   13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1    4'    15    '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-    5+   1%   4*   *-    '* 2%1     4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3    1(   1%   +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                                        !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-    15   1'   '3   4* 2%1      4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                               "
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(    15 2%1    13   '&    4*    4*   *-   '*
                                                              %6' !

<removed-date>
                                   "
              5+    1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%    1%   '*   '*   5*    '3    '*   '3   4*
                              $                          $
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6    '*   5*   '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&   ,+
<removed-apn>
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1     1%   *-   1%    13    5+   '*
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-    1%   '&   '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(   +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-   15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                          !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+   '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                        "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1    1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                               $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0   13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+   5+   4'    15    '*   15   4*
                                                              %6' !!

<removed-date>
              1(   '3   4* 2%1    '3   '*   1(   *-    5+   1%   4*   *-    '* 2%1    4*   '3
              4'   *-   *-   '*   '*   13   13   '3    1(   1%   +(   5+    1%   4*   '3 2%1
                                                                      !
<removed-apn>
              5+   '3   '&   +(   +0   4'   5*   *-    15   1'   '3   4* 2%1     4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                            "
              1%   +0   15   4*   *-   1'   4*   1(    15 2%1    13   '&    4*   4*   *-   '*
                                  "
              5+   1(   '*   +(   +(   5+   5*   1%    1%   '*   '*   5*    '3   '*   '3   4*
                             $                         $
              *-   13   1(   *0   *6   '*   *6   *6    '*   5*   '*   5+    1( 2%1    '&   ,+
              13   15   '*   4* 2%1    13   5+   4* 2%1     1%   *-   1%    13   5+   '*
                   "
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                   0-150'0&,=';
              !     "
              1(   *- 2%1    '3   ,+   1(   *-   *-    1%   '&   '*   '*    1%   '3   15   4*
              4*   1'   *6   '3   4*   5+   4*   '3    *6   +(   +0   ,+    +0   1'   15 2%1
              5*   '* 2%1    5*   *0   5*   1(    1(   *6   *-   15   ,+    *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                 !                         !
                                                            %6' !

<removed-date>
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*   +0   5+   '*    1(   15   *-   1( 2%1
                                                                       "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+   +0 2%1    1%   *6    +(   *6   15    5*
              "                                                                             $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-   13   +0   13   1%    '&   5*   5*   5+
<removed-apn>
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1    4*   ,+ 2%1    4'    15   '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-   5+   1%   4*   *-    '* 2%1    4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3   1(   1%   +(   5+    1%   4*   '3 2%1
                                                                       !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-   15   1'   '3   4* 2%1     4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                             "
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(   15 2%1    13   '&    4*   4*   *-   '*
                                   "
              5+    1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%   1%   '*   '*   5*    '3   '*   '3   4*
                              $                         $
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6   '*   5*   '*   5+    1( 2%1    '&   ,+
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1    1%   *-   1%    13   5+   '*
                    "
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                                                             %6' !"

<removed-date>
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !      "
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-    1%   '&   '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(   +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
<removed-apn>
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-   15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                          !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+   '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                        "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1    1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                               $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0   13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1    4'    15    '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-    5+   1%   4*   *-    5+ 2%1     4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3    1(   1%   +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                                        !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-    15   1'   '3   4* 2%1      4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                               "
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(    15 2%1    13   '&    4*    4*   *-   '*
                                   "
              5+    1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%    1%   '*   '*   5*    '3    '*   '3   4*
                              $                          $
                                                              %6' !

<removed-date>
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6    '*   5*   '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&   ,+
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1     1%   *-   1%    13    5+   '*
                    "
<removed-apn>
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !      "
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-    1%   '&   '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(   +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-   15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                          !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+   '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                        "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1    1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                               $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0   13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1    4'    15    '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-    5+   1%   4*   *-    '*    5+   4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3    1(   1%   +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                              %6' !$

<removed-date>
                                                                       !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0   4'   5*   *-    15   1'   '3   4* 2%1      4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                              "
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-   1'   4*   1(    15 2%1    13   '&    4*    4*   *-   '*
                                   "
<removed-apn>
              5+    1(   '*   +(   +(   5+   5*   1%    1%   '*   '*   5*    '3    '*   '3   4*
                              $                         $
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6   '*   *6   *6    '*   5*   '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&   ,+
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1    13   5+   4* 2%1     1%   *-   1%    13    5+   '*
                    "
                     *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !      "
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+   1(   *-   *-    1%   '&   '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*   5+   4*   '3    *6   +(   +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0   5*   1(    1(   *6   *-   15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                  !                          !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'   '*   1(   '*    +0   5+   '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                       "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*   15   '*   5+    +0 2%1    1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                              $
                                                             %6' !

<removed-date>
              '3   '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-   13   +0    13   1%   '&   5*   5*   5+
                                  $
              1%   '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1    4*   ,+ 2%1     4'   15   '*   15   4*
<removed-apn>
              1(   '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-   5+   1%    4*   *-   '* 2%1    4*   '3
              4'   *-   *-   5+   '*    13   13   '3   1(   1%    +(   5+   1%   4*   '3 2%1
                                                                       !
              5+   '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-   15   1'    '3   4* 2%1    4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                            "
              1%   +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(   15 2%1     13   '&   4*   4*   *-   '*
                                  "
              5+   1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%   1%   '*    '*   5*   '3   '*   '3   4*
                             $                         $
              *-   13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6   '*   5*    '*   5+   1( 2%1    '&   ,+
              13   15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1    1%    *-   1%   13   5+   '*
                   "!
                    *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                   0-150'0&,=';
              !     "!
              1(   *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-   1%   '&    '*   '*   1%   '3   15   4*
                                                            %6'

<removed-date>
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(    +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-    15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                           !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+    '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
<removed-apn>
                                                                         "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1     1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                                $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0    13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1     4'    15    '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-    5+   1%    4*   *-    '* 2%1     4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3    1(   5+    +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                                         !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-    15   1'    '3   4* 2%1      4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                                "
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(    15 2%1     13   '&    4*    4*   *-   '*
                                   "
              5+    1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%    1%   '*    '*   5*    '3    '*   '3   4*
                              $                          $
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6    '*   5*    '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&   ,+
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1     1%    *-   1%    13    5+   '*
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
                    "
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
<removed-apn>
              !      "
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-    1%   '&    '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(    +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-    15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                           !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+    '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                         "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1     1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                                $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0    13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1     4'    15    '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-    5+   1%    4*   *-    '* 2%1     4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3    1(   1%    +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                                         !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-    15   1'    '3   4*    5+    4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                                "
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(    15 2%1     13   '&    4*    4*   *-   '*
                                   "
              5+    1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%    1%   '*    '*   5*    '3    '*   '3   4*
                              $                          $
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6    '*   5*    '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&   ,+
<removed-apn>
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1     1%    *-   1%    13    5+   '*
                    ""
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !      ""
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-    1%   '&    '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(    +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-    15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                           !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+    '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                         "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1     1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                                $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0    13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1     4'    15    '*   15   4*
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              1(   '3   4* 2%1    '3   '*   1(   *-    5+   1%    4*   *-   '* 2%1     4*   '3
              4'   *-   *-   '*   '*   13   13   '3    1(   1%    +(   5+   1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                                       !
<removed-apn>
              5+   '3   '&   +(   +0   4'   5*   *-    15   1'    '3   4* 2%1     4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                             "
              1%   +0   15   4*   *-   1'   4*   1(    15   5+    13   '&   4*    4*   *-   '*
                                  "
              5+   1(   '*   +(   +(   5+   5*   1%    1%   '*    '*   5*   '3    '*   '3   4*
                             $                         $
              *-   13   1(   *0   *6   '*   *6   *6    '*   5*    '*   5+   1( 2%1     '&   ,+
              13   15   '*   4* 2%1    13   5+   4* 2%1     1%    *-   1%   13    5+   '*
                   "
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                   0-150'0&,=';
              !     "
              1(   *- 2%1    '3   ,+   1(   *-   *-    1%   '&    '*   '*   1%    '3   15   4*
              4*   1'   *6   '3   4*   5+   4*   '3    *6   +(    +0   ,+   +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*   '* 2%1    5*   *0   5*   1(    1(   *6   *-    15   ,+    *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                 !                          !
                                                            %6'    !

<removed-date>
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*   +0   5+    '*    1(   15   *-   1( 2%1
                                                                        "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+   +0 2%1     1%   *6    +(   *6   15    5*
              "                                                                              $
<removed-apn>
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-   13   +0    13   1%    '&   5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1    4*   ,+ 2%1     4'    15   '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-   5+   1%    4*   *-    '* 2%1    4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3   1(   1%    +(   5+    1%   4*   '3 2%1
                                                                        !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-   15   1'    '3   4* 2%1     4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                              "
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(   15 2%1     13   '&    4*   4*   *-   '*
                                   "
              5+    5+   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%   1%   '*    '*   5*    '3   '*   '3   4*
                              $                         $
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6   '*   5*    '*   5+    1( 2%1    '&   ,+
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1    1%    *-   1%    13   5+   '*
                    "$
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                                                             %6'

<removed-date>
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !      "$
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-    1%   '&    '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(    +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
<removed-apn>
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-    15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                           !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+    '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                         "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1     1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                                $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0    13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1     4'    15    '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-    5+   1%    4*   *-    '* 2%1     4*   '3
              4'    *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3    1(   1%    +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                                         !
              5+    '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-    15   1'    '3   4* 2%1      4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                                "
              1%    +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(    15 2%1     13   '&    4*    4*   *-   '*
                                   "
              5+    1(   '*   5+   +(    5+   5*   1%    1%   '*    '*   5*    '3    '*   '3   4*
                              $                          $
                                                              %6'    "

<removed-date>
              *-    13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6    '*   5*    '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&   ,+
              13    15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4* 2%1     1%    *-   1%    13    5+   '*
                    "
<removed-apn>
                     *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                    +-3*8'
                    #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                    0-150'0&,=';
              !      "
              1(    *- 2%1    '3   ,+    1(   *-   *-    1%   '&    '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*    1'   *6   '3   4*    5+   4*   '3    *6   +(    +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*    '* 2%1    5*   *0    5*   1(    1(   *6   *-    15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                   !                           !
              '3    '3   *6   5*   4'    '*   1(   '*    +0   5+    '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                         "
               *-   *-   *6   4'   '*    15   '*   5+    +0 2%1     1%   *6    +(    *6   15    5*
              "                                                                                $
              '3    '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-    13   +0    13   1%    '&    5*   5*   5+
                                   $
              1%    '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1     4*   ,+ 2%1     4'    15    '*   15   4*
              1(    '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-    5+   1%    4*   *-    '* 2%1     4*   '3
                                                              %6'

<removed-date>
              4'   *-   *-   '*   '*   13   13   '3    1(   1%    +(   5+    1%    4*   '3 2%1
                                                                       !
              5+   '3   '&   +(   +0   4'   5*   *-    15   1'    '3   4* 2%1      4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                              "
              1%   +0   15   4*   *-   1'   4*   1(    15 2%1     13   '&    4*    4*   *-   '*
                                  "
<removed-apn>
              5+   1(   '*   +(   +(   5+   5*   1%    1%   '*    '*   5*    '3    '*   '3   4*
                             $                         $
              *-   13   1(   *0   *6   '*   *6   *6    '*   5*    '*   5+    1( 2%1     '&   ,+
              13   15   '*   4*   5+   13   5+   4* 2%1     1%    *-   1%    13    5+   '*
                    *&,7,8,%1     '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7         *&,7,8,%1       '93'(8'<     5(&4'&,8
                   0-150'0&,=';
              !
              1(   *- 2%1    '3   ,+   1(   *-   *-    1%   '&    '*   '*    1%    '3   15   4*
              4*   1'   *6   '3   4*   5+   4*   '3    *6   +(    +0   ,+    +0    1'   15 2%1
              5*   '* 2%1    5*   *0   5*   1(    1(   *6   *-    15   ,+     *-   *-   *6   4'
                                                 !                           !
              '3   '3   *6   5*   4'   '*   1(   '*    +0   5+    '*    1(   15    *-   1( 2%1
                                                                       "
              *-   *-   *6   4'   '*   15   '*   5+    +0 2%1     1%   *6    +(    *6   15   5*
                                                            %6'    $

<removed-date>
              "                                                                            $
              '3   '*   1'   '*    13   '3   1(   *-   13   +0    13   1%   '&   5*   5*   5+
                                  $
              1%   '&   15   1%   *6    '*   '* 2%1    4*   ,+ 2%1     4'   15   '*   15   4*
<removed-apn>
              1(   '3   4* 2%1    '3    '*   1(   *-   5+   1%    4*   *-   '* 2%1    4*   '3
              4'   *-   *-   '*   '*    13   13   '3   1(   1%    +(   5+   1%   4*   '3 2%1
                                                                       !
              5+   '3   '&   +(   +0    4'   5*   *-   15   1'    '3   4* 2%1    4*   *0   5+
              !                                                                            "
              1%   +0   15   4*   *-    1'   4*   1(   15 2%1     13   '&   4*   4*   *-   '*
                                  "
              5+   1(   '*   +(   +(    5+   5*   1%   1%   '*    '*   5*   '3   '*   '3   4*
                             $                         $
              *-   13   1(   *0   *6    '*   *6   *6   '*   5*    '*   5+   1( 2%1    '&   ,+
              13   15   '*   4* 2%1     13   5+   4*   5+   1%    *-   1%   13   5+   '*
                   "
                    *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'
                   +-3*8'
                   #(-&':; '+8*,0&,-( -7          *&,7,8,%1      '93'(8'<    5(&4'&,8
                   "@ ,+ &%6;
              !
              ,+   ,+   ,+   ,+   ,+    ,+
                                                            %6'

