ABSTRACT
        A method and system for providing vision correction to a patient is disclosed. The
method and system employ a vision care POD to engage and provide vision diagnostics
and correction options to a patient. More specifically, method and system may include
educating the population of a geographic area through sources that target particular
identified groups in need of vision correction; providing an eye examination to patients
using a vision care POD to generate a personalized vision correction ID card; providing
one or more vision correction solution(s) to the patient; supplying the patient with the one
or more vision correction solution(s) and the corresponding training for the solution(s); and
providing ongoing care and support to the patient.

                                                1
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ENGAGING AND PROVIDING VISION
CORRECTION OPTIONS TO PATIENTS FROM A REMOTE LOCATION
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/675,524, filed July 25, 2012.
[0002]           The present invention relates to vision correction, and more particularly to
methods and apparatus for engaging and providing personalized vision correction options,
instructional information, and ongoing support to patients. More specifically, the methods
and systems of the present invention employ a remote vision care POD used to examine a
patient's vision.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]           A large portion of the population is ametropic; i.e., their vision is less than
optimum due at least in part to refractive abnormalities of the eye. For over one-hundred
(100) years, practitioners ranging from lens fitters to surgeons have engaged in the
business of providing vision correction to the ametropic population, as technology
permitted, through spectacles, contact lenses, intra-ocular lenses (IOLs), corneal inlays and
corneal onlays.
[0004]           Many visual defects, also commonly known as aberrations, may arise from
refractive abnormalities that have an adverse impact on the imaging properties of an eye.
Multiple orders of aberrations that may affect vision may be described using a variety of
mathematical models, an example of which are Zernike coefficients. A set of Zernike
coefficients thus gives detailed information on the relative and absolute importance of the
different aberrational defects of any particular eye for the specified conditions of
measurement. In the Zernike description, first-order polynomials describe wavefront tilt
(i.e., prismatic effects) and have no effect on image quality. Second-order polynomials
describe the sphero-cylindrical errors of focus which can normally be negated by optical
corrections, such as spectacles or contact lenses.

                                                2
[0005]          While spectacles, contact lenses, and the like generally provide optical
correction to help people see better, there is a need in some geographical areas of the world
for the engagement of the population through facilitated testing for vision correction and
eye care education, and ongoing support to those individuals. Accordingly, there is a need
for new methods and systems that can facilitate proper testing and ongoing support to
individuals situated in those geographical areas. Such methods and systems should be
simple to understand and use, yet provide for patient preferences and/or needs matching.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]          The methods and systems in accordance with the present invention
overcome the disadvantages and concerns as briefly set forth above.
[0007]          In accordance with some aspects of the present invention, exemplary
method steps that may be implemented for engaging an identified population and providing
vision correction to a patient are provided. The method may include educating the
population of a geographic area through sources that target particular identified groups in
need of vision correction; providing an eye examination to patients using a vision care
POD to generate a personalized vision correction ID card; providing one or more vision
correction solution(s) to the patient; supplying the patient with the one or more vision
correction solution(s) and the corresponding training for the solution(s); and providing
ongoing care and support to the patient.
[0008]          In accordance with other aspects of the present invention, a method for
determining whether a patient needs vision correction is disclosed. The method which
implements a vision care POD that may be equipped with automated eye examination
devices and in communication with a network in communication with an eye care
practitioner to properly identify whether vision correction is needed. If it is determined
that vision correction is needed, the vision care POD may generate a personal vision care
ID card comprising data including a generated prescription for the patient. Other data may
include a patient's preferences, retailer information, appointment data, health history, and
lifestyle. The vision care POD may also be in communication with retailers, manufacturer,
customer service plant, school, and the like, through the communication network.

                                                 3
[0009]          It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any data transmission
referred to above could be in the form of telecom or datacom, and could be sent via wire
based (optical fiber, cable, etc.) or wireless services. A preferable interface would be
Internet based.
[0010]          In some exemplary embodiments of the present invention, the vision care
POD may additionally generate and display a simulation comparing what the patient would
see with the selected vision correction contact lenses or spectacles. Similarly, the vision
care POD may generate and display what the patient would look like with the selected
vision correction contact lenses and spectacles. Further, a patient's preferences may be
obtained and included in the generated personalized vision care ID card that may be used
in various associated entities.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]          The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will be
apparent from the following, more particular description of preferred embodiments of the
invention, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
[0012]          Figure 1 is a flowchart illustrating exemplary method steps that may be
implemented for providing a personalized vision care ID card to a patient in accordance
with the present invention.
[0013]          Figure 2 illustrates a network for the transfer of information between entities
that may be implemented in accordance with the present invention.
[0014]          Figure 3 is a flow chart illustrating exemplary method steps that may be
implemented to engage and provide continuous vision care to patients in accordance with
the present invention.
[0015]          Figure 4 illustrates a schematic diagram of an exemplary processor that may
be utilized in accordance with the present invention.

                                                4
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PRESENT EMBODIMENT
[0016]           The present invention relates to methods and systems useful to engage
patients and provide vision correction options to them. In the following sections, detailed
descriptions of exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be given. The
description of both preferred and alternate embodiments are exemplary embodiments only,
and it is understood that to those skilled in the art that variations, modifications and
alterations may be apparent. It is therefore to be understood that the exemplary
embodiments do not limit the scope of the underlying invention.
GLOSSARY
[0017]           In this description and claims directed to the present invention, various
terms may be used for which the following definitions will apply:
[0018]           "Custom Product" as used herein, refers to a product including one or more
parameters that may be available in other than customary or standard products and/or
settings. Custom product parameters may allow for more precisely targeted sphere power,
cylinder power, and cylinder axis (e.g., -3.125D/-0.47D x 180) than standard products. The
customized settings may also relate to base curves, diameters, stabilization profiles, and
thickness profiles based upon a particular product offering and the intended use of the
product. A custom product may be formed using a free form technique, such as, one
described in United States Patent Application Serial Number 12/194,981 filed on August
20, 2008 and in United States Patent Application Serial Number 12/195,132 filed on
August 20, 2008 both of which are incorporated by reference herein.
[0019]           "Eye Care Practitioner" as used herein refers appropriately to anyone
qualified to fit, prescribe or dispense vision correction devices such as spectacles, contact
lenses and the like, or medically attend to a patient particularly with respect to the patient's
eyes.
[0020]           "Eye Data" as used herein, means the data and information taken of a
patient's eye when the patient is not using any vision correction devices. A series of

                                                5
exams may be performed to collect bare eye data, including, e.g., a physiology exam, a
topographical exam, a wavefront exam, and a refraction exam.
[0021]          "Lens" as used herein, refers to any ophthalmic device that resides in or on
the eye. These devices may provide optical correction or may be cosmetic. For example,
the term lens may refer to a contact lens, intraocular lens, overlay lens, ocular insert,
optical insert or other similar device through which vision is corrected or modified, or
through which eye physiology is cosmetically enhanced (e.g., iris color) without impeding
vision. In some exemplary embodiments, the preferred lenses of the invention are soft
contact lenses and are made from silicone elastomers or hydrogels, which include but are
not limited to silicone hydrogels, and fluorohydrogels.
[0022]          "Physiology Exam" as used herein means an exam that observes the
physical appearance of the eye. Physiology exam includes, but is not limited to, a
glaucoma test (e.g., tonometry test, ophthalmoscopy, optic nerve computer imaging
techniques, etc.), a retinal exam (e.g., ophthalmoscopy, papillary dilation test, optomap
retinal exam, etc.), checking for ulcers, a tear production test to check for dry eye
syndrome (e.g., Schirmer test), checking for eye infections, and the like.
[0023]          "Refraction Exam" as used herein means an exam wherein a patient's vision
is refracted using a device that contains hundreds of combinations of lenses to determine
any possible refractive error such as nearsightedness, farsightedness, astigmatism, or
presbyopia. An over-refraction exam is where a similar exam is taken but with the patient
wearing a contact lens.
[0024]          "Standard Product" as used herein, refers to a product with limited product
parameter availability, such as those currently offered with specified settings that vary in
discrete steps. For example, standard products could define a family of products where
sphere power parameters may only be available in 0.25D steps (e.g., -3.OOD, 3.25D,
3.50D, etc.); cylinder power parameters may only be available in 0.50D steps (e.g., -0.75D,
-1.25D, -1.75D, etc.); and cylinder axis parameters may only be available in 100 steps (e.g.,
100, 200, 300, etc.). Other standard product parameters and features offered in discrete

                                                 6
steps include but are not limited to base curve radii, diameter, stabilization profiles and
thickness profiles.
[0025]           "Store-Based" as used herein means an interaction between the patient and
information utilizing devices or information source elements occurring at various points
(e.g., practitioner's office, pharmacy, retail store, on-line, POD/Kiosk, mobile center, and
the like).
[0026]           "Topographical Exam" as used herein means an exam that looks at the
surface features of an eye. A topographical exam includes, but is not limited to, curvature
of a cornea and surface of a retina, which may help in determining certain characteristics
such as: base curve measurement of a patient's eye, limbal measurements, pupil size, line
of sight measurement, pupil center measurement, geometric center measurement, and the
like.
[0027]           "Vision Correction" as used in the description of the invention refers both to
a measured improvement in vision over that provided by conventional refractive correction
and to the subjective evaluation of "seeing better" by the patient.
[0028]           "Wavefront Exam" as used herein means an exam that looks at the way that
the light travels in an eye. A wavefront exam, which may be performed with an
aberrometer, creates an optical aberration map, which is sometimes called an "optical
fingerprint," and identifies optical aberrations or distortions of a patient's eye (e.g., low
order, medium order, high order, Zernike, other functions or descriptors, and the like).
Examples of low order optical aberrations include nearsightedness, farsightedness, and
astigmatism. Examples of high order optical aberrations include coma, trefoil, and
spherical aberration.
[0029]           "Web-Based" as used herein means an interaction between a practitioner
and/or a patient and information based on communication, either in near real time or by
delayed transmission, between two points, in which this connection uses in part the
Internet, commonly referred to as the World-Wide-Web, where a practitioner and/or a
patient is at one of the points. The practitioner and/or the patient located point can be a

                                                 7
store or non-store location (i.e., home, POD/Kiosk, or office) for such a web-based
interaction.
[0030]          Certain information regarding a patient may be used to assist in the selection
of vision correction products. The method of the present invention centers on the ability to
engage populations of particular geographical areas to properly identify the needs and
preferences of patients and to match these needs and preferences with appropriate vision
correction products.
[0031]          Referring now to Figure 1, there is illustrated a flowchart showing
exemplary method steps that may be implemented for providing a personalized vision care
ID card to a patient. At step 101, patient data may be collected, for example, through the
use of questionnaires. Questionnaire content may include questions such as age, gender,
geographic location, lifestyle, preferences, personal history, symptoms, practitioner
information, vision correction needs, contact lens interest, free trial interest, and any other
information which may be useful for constructing or maintaining one or more databases for
future use. Each question may be associated with one or more input devices such as radio
button, drop-down menu, or check-box for example, such that upon submission by the
user, the data is stored by the client engine and/or server such as by entry into a database
such that the data is available for access at a later time. The information may be stored
temporarily or permanently in various exemplary embodiments and may be employed
when recommending different product choices for the patient. Preferably the information
may be stored in a generated personalized vision care ID, held by the patient, for uses
described in other parts of this disclosure.
[0032]          At step 102, patient eye data may be collected within a vision care
POD/Kiosk equipped with equipment used to obtain certain ocular measurements and
characteristics. This may include one or more automated or conventional systems/devices
for performing a physiology exam, refraction exam, topographical exam, and wavefront
exam. In preferred exemplary embodiments, the different examinations may be fully
automated processes requiring very minimal end-user involvement. At step 103, a
remotely located eye care practitioner may access the collected data and using telemedicine
techniques may communicate with the patient explaining the results of his/her analysis of

                                                8
the data. The eye care practitioner may discuss whether a vision correction treatment is
needed and provide an explanation of the treatment, for example, spectacles and contact
lenses. Further, if the doctor sees anything that would suggest a further, more detailed
examination is needed, the patient may be directed to a hospital or specialist for a more
comprehensive examination.
[0033]          At step 104, a prescription may be generated. The prescription may be
generated from the data gathered alone or additionally with input from the eye care
practitioner. Based on the prescription correction, alternatives may be presented to the
patient, step 106. For example, different types of contact lenses, step 107, or spectacles
 105 may be selected. During the selection of spectacles, a software generated simulation
of the patient's vision wearing the spectacles compared to without the spectacles may be
displayed to the patient, step 109. Furthermore, using a picture or still frame of video
collected, a software generated simulation of what the patient would look like wearing the
spectacles may be displayed to the patient, step 109.
[0034]          At step 107, contact lens alternatives may be presented to the patient based
on vision correction needs. However, the patient may select different preferences, such as
length of wear options, step 111 (e.g. one day disposable, weekly, and the like), cost
options, step 112, cosmetic options, step 113 (e.g. color enhancer lenses, color changing
lenses, lenses with a color lumbar ring, and the like) lens options, step 114 (e.g. comfort,
requirements, and the like). Similarly, software generated simulations of vision correction,
step 115 and/or what the user may look like wearing the selected contact lenses, step 116,
including both custom products and standard products, may be displayed to the patient.
Furthermore, a comparison of the patient wearing spectacles simulation representation may
be displayed next to a simulation representation of the patient wearing contact lenses may
be displayed to the patient. It may be possible to include a software tool that includes
manipulator tools, such as the one described in United Stated Patent Application No.
12/401,662, titled "INTERACTIVE CONTACT LENS SIMULATION SYSTEM AND
METHOD" of the same inventive entity to be included in the vision care POD. The
contents of the application referenced which are incorporated by reference and relied upon.
From the simulations and user preferences, the patient may select various options which

                                                 9
may also be recorded as additional preferences, step 110, for example, from the responses
to the different simulations displayed.
[0035]          At step 117, data may be classified and stored in a personalized vision care
ID card. It is also possible for some or all of the information regarding the selection of
vision correction options, in accordance with the methods of the present invention, to be
distributed to eye care practitioners, merchants, manufacturer, or other persons and/or
places likely to be engaged in the recommendation, retail sale, promotion, distribution,
giveaway, or trade of eye care products taking into account privacy rights of the patients.
[0036]          Referring now to Figure 2, exemplary entities that form part of a network
that may be implemented in accordance with some aspects of the present invention for the
transfer of information between them are depicted. The information may be transmitted
via the internet; however, any supporting transmission mode and transmission medium
may be used. For example, the information may be transmitted by computer, mail,
wireless device, telephone, or any other modes imaginable that may be used for data
transmission. In the exemplary representation, a patient may engage himself/herself in a
vision care POD or kiosk 202. The vision care POD 202 may be located, for example, at a
school or near any point of interest. A remotely located eye care practitioner may be in
communication with the vision care POD 202 using any one method known to provide
medical telemedicine to the patient as described in other parts of this disclosure. The
information may be stored in or on a personalized vision care ID card 201 which may be
updated as desired or required and used to generate a report 207 for the patient and/or
directly implemented by a manufacturing facility 204 (e.g. to complete and order), a
retailer 205 (e.g. to verify a prescription), and/or by customer service support 206 (e.g. to
verify information of the patient and product ordered).
[0037]          Referring now to Figure 3, a flow chart showing exemplary method steps
that may be implemented to engage and provide continuous vision care to patients is
depicted. At step 301, the population of a particular geographical area may be provided
with vision care education. An educational package may include the generated
personalized vision care report and suggested products, as well as generic packages for

                                               10
students, athletes, parents, and the like. The package may be represented through any
suitable means including paper media, digital media, and seminars/functions.
[0038]          At step 302, examination may take place through the use of a vision care
POD to generate a personalized vision care ID card/report, as described with respect to
other parts of the present invention. Additionally, the vision care POD may include a user
interphase, such as a touch screen, mouse, voice recognition, and the like to input
responses and in some embodiments to generate a user name and password for information
to be send electronically through e-mail to the patient, parent, or associated entity.
[0039]          When vision correction need is identified, the patient may also be sent
information regarding the diagnosis and directed to schedule an appointment to see a
vision care specialist, for example, an ophthalmologist, using the vision care POD. This
appointment may be a web-based scheduling tool coordinated through the a variety of
entities with eye care practitioners. During a scheduled vision care appointment occurring
at a vision care POD, the following steps may take place. The patient may enter either
their ID card or personal vision care ID number and password into the POD. With that
information entered, all of the personal vision care profile information along with the
results of the preliminary exam relating to that individual is readily available. In addition,
the patient may be directed to go through a series of steps in which the machine may
collect one or more of a prescription of current glasses if available, a pupil distance
measurement, a close up picture of each eye (16-18mm wide field of view) with all parts of
eye in focus, a full face photograph of the patient, a measure from the corner of the eye to
the back of the ear and middle of the ear hole, and an additional vision test.
[0040]          At step 303, a vision correction solution may be provided to the patient.
The solution may be provided by the prescription alone, but preferably the patient may
request or be offered the virtual reality phase of the appointment described at steps 108,
 109, 115 and 116 (Figure 1). This step may take place in the vision care POD and enable
the patient to experience how vision care solutions will impact their vision. The complete
information may be stored under the personalized vision care profile and ID card. The
patient may additionally receive a personalized report explaining all of their data and
vision care options and directed to a retail outlet.

                                              11
[0041]          At step 304, the patient may be supplied the product and provided training
on the use of the particular product. For example, a patient may go to a retailer. This
retailer may be set up to supply patients with all of the products, information, and training
under the vision care POD program. The process at the retailer may include utilizing the
data from the personalized ID card and providing the patient with the pre-selected
spectacles/contact lenses. The retailer may conduct the proper fitting and training on care
of the spectacles/contact lenses. When contact lenses are desired, a patient may be trained
on insertion, removal, care, and use of the contact lenses. Information may be gathered
from the purchase and sent to the different entities through the communication network for
different purposes, such as tracking of the lenses or statistical analysis.
[0042]          At step 305, the patient may be provided with ongoing care and support.
For example, it may include follow-up for bi-annual or yearly exams, answering any
questions regarding the products, discounted offers or additional product releases, loyalty
points, and the like.
[0043]          Referring now to Figure 4, there is illustrated a schematic diagram of an
exemplary controller 400 processor that may be utilized in accordance with the present
invention. The exemplary controller 400 includes a processor 410, a communication
device 420 and a data storage or memory component 430. The processor 410 is in
communication with both the communication device 420 and the data storage device 430.
The communication device 420 may be configured to communicate information via a
communication channel, wired or wireless, to electronically transmit and receive digital
data related to the functions discussed herein. The communication device 420 may also be
used to communicate, for example, with one or more human readable display devices, such
as, an LCD panel, an LED display or other display device or printer. The storage device
430 may comprise any appropriate information storage device, including combinations of
magnetic storage devices (e.g., magnetic tape, radio frequency tags, and hard disk drives),
optical storage devices, and/or semiconductor memory devices such as Random Access
Memory (RAM) devices and Read-Only Memory (ROM) devices. The storage device 430
may store the modeling program 440 for controlling the processor 410. The processor 410
performs instructions of the program 440, and thereby operates in accordance with the
present invention. For example, the processor 410 may receive information relating to

                                               12
patient collected data, profiles, measured data, and the like. The storage device 430 may
also store and send all or some of the information sent to the processor 410 in one or more
databases 450 and 460.
[0044]          A number of exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been
described herein. While this specification includes specific implementation details, they
should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be
claimed, but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the
present invention.
[0045]          Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of
separate embodiments may also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment.
Conversely, various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may
also be implemented in combination in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable
subcombination. Moreover, although features may be described above as acting in certain
combinations and even initially claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed
combination can in some cases be excised from the combination, and the claimed
combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.
[0046]          Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular
order, this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the
particular order shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be
performed, to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel
may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system components in the
embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all
embodiments, and it should be understood that the described program components and
systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into
multiple software products.
[0047]          Thus, particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described.
Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases, the
actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve
desirable results. In addition, the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not

                                                 13
 necessarily require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable
 results. In certain implementations, multitasking and parallel processing may be
 advantageous. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made
 without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention.
 [0048]           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
 context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
 "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
 of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
 steps.
 [0049]           The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
 taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
 common general knowledge in Australia.
[0050]             This application is a divisional application from Australian application
2013209294. The full disclosure of AU2013209294 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                             14
CLAIMS
  1. A patient POD for engaging and providing vision correction support, the patient POD
     comprising a processor having an input means for collecting patient data, equipment
     to obtain various ocular measurements and characteristics, including data from a
     physiology examination, a refractive examination, a topographical examination and a
     wavefront    examination;     a   transmissions  medium     for  providing   two-way
     communication between a patient and an eye care professional to determine options
     for treatment if required; a display for providing simulations of the impact of vision
     correction and how the patient would look with the vision correction means; a device
     for storing data and generating a patient ID card with the data thereon, and an
     apparatus for forming a custom lens that resides on or in the eye directly from the
     ocular measurements and characteristics, the custom lens including targeted sphere
     power, targeted cylindrical power and axis, targeted diameter, targeted stabilization
     profiles and targeted thickness profiles, the apparatus being configured to use the
     various ocular measurements and characteristics to form the custom lens that resides
     on or in the eye utilizing a free form technique, wherein surfaces of the custom lens
     are formed by cross-linking of a reactive mixture.
  2. The POD of claim 1, wherein the custom lens is a soft contact lens.
  3. The POD of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the custom lens is made from a silicon
     elastomer or hydrogel.
  4. The POD of claim 3, wherein the hydrogel is a silicon hydrogel.
  5. The POD of claim 3, wherein the hydrogel is a fluorohydrogel.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
