                                           - 28
                            ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
Methods and systems for receiving an authorization request associated with a
transaction, the authorization request including a payment account number and a card
verification value; determining the authorization request is to be processed as having a
dynamic card verification value;        automatically bypassing, in     response to the
determination that the authorization request is to be processed as having a dynamic
card verification value, at least one card verification process to be used in a processing
of the authorization request; and sending the authorization request to a card verifier to
verify the card verification value matches a dynamic card verification value of record.
Some methods and systems include transmitting the authorization request to a payment
network for authorization of the transaction; receiving an authorization response in reply
to the transmitted authorization request; and providing an indication of the authorization
response to a merchant associated with the transaction.

                                             -1
     METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SECURE CONSUMER IDENTIFICATION
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
2015225422, as originally filed and as amended, is incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to a computer-implemented method and a payment
processing apparatus.
Background of the Invention
Traditionally, a major concern of cardholders, merchants, issuers of payment cards
(such as credit or debit cards) in a transaction is the security and safekeeping of the
financial data transferred between the various entities involved in processing a
transaction involving the use of the card. Typically, a primary account number (PAN)
associated with the payment card is used to identify the particular cardholder account
associated with the card and used for purchase transactions involving the card, as well
to identify the cardholder.    Since the PAN is typically used as an identifier of the
cardholder, services and transactions that may leverage information relating to the
purchase transaction have also typically used the PAN as a primary identifier of the
cardholder in these other services and transactions.
In an effort to reduce the potential and/or real exposure to credit card fraud involving the
misappropriation of PANs, a number of methods and systems have been used to
safeguard the acquisition, transmission, and storage of PANs obtained and used in

                                               -2
various transactions. Compliance with the applicable rules, standards, and regulations
regarding the acquisition, transmission, and storage of PANs tend to be complex and
costly to establish and maintain.
Merchants and/or third party servicers may seek to mitigate the risk of fraud by
implementing different security mechanisms and features.          However, the introduction
and acceptance of new and different security mechanisms and features may be time
consuming and costly to implement, particularly if changes are required of processing
systems and flows and/or cardholder behavior.
Therefore, it would be desirable to provide improved methods and apparatus for
efficiently facilitating and processing card transactions without a reliance on PANs.
It is generally desirable to overcome or ameliorate one or more of the above described
difficulties, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
Summary of the Invention
The present disclosure provides a computer-implemented                method, the method
comprising:
         receiving, at a payment network operator computer system, an authorization
request message associated with a transaction and satisfying one or more payment
processing regulations, the authorization request message comprising transaction
details, a payment account number (PAN) corresponding to a payment vehicle and a
consumer identification value (CID), the CID uniquely identifying a cardholder of the
payment vehicle without identifying the PAN;
          transmitting,    by the    payment     network operator  computer    system,  the
authorization request message including the transaction details and the PAN according

                                            -3
to the one or more payment processing regulations to an issuer computing system for
processing of the financial transaction;
          determining, by the payment network operator computer system, that the
transaction details are to be further processed as a non-financial transaction based on
the CID being included in the authorization request message, and based on processing
of the financial transaction; and
          determining, by the payment network operator computer system, not to use the
PAN from the transaction details to identify the cardholder for the non-financial
transaction but instead use the CID to represent the identity of the cardholder,
generating, by the payment network operator computer system, a modified authorization
request message with the PAN removed thereby alleviating a need for satisfying the
one or more payment processing regulations, and forwarding the modified authorization
request message to a loyalty program operator computing system to settle the non
financial transaction for the cardholder, the modified authorization request message
including the transaction details and the CID, and not including the PAN.
The present disclosure further provides a payment processing apparatus comprising:
          a processor; and
          a memory device in communication with the processor and storing program
instructions thereon, wherein, when executed, the        program instructions cause the
processor to:
                receive an authorization request message associated with a financial
        transaction and satisfying one or more payment processing regulations, the
        authorization request message comprising transaction details, a payment
        account number (PAN) and a consumer identification value (CID), the CID
        uniquely and separately identifying a cardholder corresponding to the PAN
        without identifying the PAN;
               transmit the authorization request message including the transaction
        details and the PAN according to the one or more payment processing

                                              -4
        regulations to an issuer computing system for processing the financial
        transaction;
               determine that the transaction details are to be further processed as a
        non-financial transaction based on the CID being included in the authorization
        request message and based on processing of the financial transaction; and
               determine not to use the PAN from the transaction details to identify the
        cardholder for the non-financial transaction but instead use the CID to represent
        the identity of the cardholder, generate a modified authorization request message
        with the PAN removed thereby alleviating a need for satisfying the one or more
        payment processing regulations, and forward the modified authorization request
        message to a loyalty program operator computing system to settle the non
        financial transaction for the cardholder, the modified authorization request
        message including the transaction details and the CID, and not including the
        PAN.
Brief Description of the Drawings
Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereafter described, by way of non
limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 is a flow diagram of an process;
Figure 2 is an illustrative front view depiction of a payment card;
Figure 3 is an illustrative rear view depiction of a payment card;
Figure 4 is an illustrative depiction of a contactless payment card;
Figure 5 is a block diagram of a mobile device;
Figure 6 is an illustrative depiction of a system;
Figure 7 is a flow diagram of an process; and
Figure 8 is schematic block diagram of an apparatus.

                                           -5
Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
In general, and for the purpose of introducing concepts of embodiments of the present
disclosure, a payment vehicle refers to, in general, a payment device of any
embodiment (e.g., a card, mobile telephone, a key fob, etc.) that may be used to store,
present, and represent a primary account number (PAN) that may be used in a payment
or purchase transaction. As used herein, the terms purchase transaction and payment
transaction or simply transaction may be used interchangeably unless stated otherwise.
In general, the purchase transactions herein refer to card present and card not present
transactions, including for example e-commerce transactions.
In some aspects, one or more services may be provided to an entity that uses a
payment vehicle in, for example, a purchase transaction. For example, the cardholder
of a credit card may be enrolled in a loyalty program of a financial institution, a retailer,
or a third party and earn loyalty points when using the credit card for certain
transactions. As such, use of the credit card in the certain transactions may trigger or
otherwise invoke one or more service transactions associated with the cardholder. In
some embodiments, the service transactions may need to accurately identify the
cardholder in order to render the service to the proper user. For example, in order to
accurately implement a loyalty program's rules, scoring, servicing, and management,
the loyalty program or service may need to accurately identify the cardholder. In some
aspects, so long as the service transaction is provided with an accurate identification
representation of the cardholder, the service transaction may not need to know or make
use of a payment account number (PAN) associated with the credit card (or other
payment vehicle). In addition to not needing to know the PAN, at least in the instance
an accurate identification representation of the cardholder is otherwise provided,
conveying the PAN to one or more of a financial institution, retailer, or third party may
unnecessarily expose the PAN to potential security risks and/or trigger a requirement to
comply with one or more financial data security measures.

                                              -6
In some embodiments herein, a service transaction may not need to know or make use
of a PAN associated with a payment vehicle (e.g., credit card, debit card, e-wallet
application, etc.), at least in the instance an accurate identification representation of the
user or cardholder is otherwise provided. As used herein, a transaction or service that
may use at least some transaction details of a transaction for non-financial purposes
may be referred to as a service transaction. A non-financial, service transaction may be
any service, transaction, or processing of information that does not directly use a PAN
for financial purposes and/or identification purposes.
FIG. 1 is an illustrative diagram of a process 100 that may be utilized for supporting a
secure consumer identification (CID) that facilitates processing of payment vehicle
transactions without a reliance on a PAN associated with the payment vehicle as an
identifier for the user of the payment vehicle. Process 100 includes an operation 105 to
generate a value for a CID that will be assigned to, linked to, or otherwise associated
with a particular consumer. The CID uniquely identifies a particular user entity. In some
aspects, the CID identifies a specific individual person. In some instances, the CID may
uniquely identify a specific business organization. A record of the CID generated at
operation 105 and the basis for the generation thereof is saved for future reference in
the processing of transactions that will be associated with the particular consumer user.
The CID generated at operation 105 may be accomplished by a payment network
operator in some embodiments herein.             In some aspects, the CID generated at
operation 105 is associated with a particular consumer user, without any reliance or
dependence on a particular PAN associated with the consumer user. The CID is not
the same as a PAN or generated based on a PAN, including but not limited to being
derived based on or calculated using an algorithm based on the PAN.              The CID is
generated independent of a PAN.

                                           -7
At operation 110, the CID generated at operation 105 is assigned to or otherwise
associated with a particular consumer user. In some embodiments, operation 105 may
generated a plurality of CIDs in a batch operation and each of the CIDs may then be
assigned to a specific consumer user at operation 110. Operation 105 may include
associating personal details of the specific consumer user that will be associated with a
given CID in order to accurately and sufficiently identify the specific consumer user.
In some embodiments, the personal details of the specific consumer user that will be
associated with a given CID may be obtained from a consumer user during a
registration process that registers a consumer user with the secure CID.           In some
aspects, the registration process may include a registration process with a financial
institution or a payment network operator that facilitates or administers processing of
transactions that may include a CID.     In some aspects, the registration process may
include a registration process with a financial institution, merchant , or service provider
such as, for example, a merchant's loyalty program that may be serviced and managed
by the merchant, a payment network operator, or a third party servicer.
In some embodiments, the personal details of a specific consumer user that will be
associated with a given CID may include at least one of the name, mailing address,
mobile phone, personal code known only by the consumer user, and other detailed
information personal to the consumer user.
Referring to FIG. 1, process 100 proceeds to operation 115 where the CID may be
associated with one or more payment vehicles. The payment vehicles may include one
or more of a credit card; a debit card; a charge card; a stored value card; a gift card; a
"chip" card storing a PAN; a "fob" storing a PAN; an electronic wallet (e-wallet) device,
program, or application; and other embodiments of a payment vehicle.

                                             -8
In some embodiments, the CID may be associated with more than one payment vehicle,
wherein each payment vehicle has a PAN associated therewith.              For each payment
vehicle to which the CID may be associated, the CID may be used to primarily identify
the consumer user and the PAN may be used to primarily identify a particular account of
the user (e.g., cardholder).       Accordingly, some embodiments herein provide a
mechanism that separates the identification of a consumer user from the identification
the consumer user's particular account associated with a payment vehicle.
FIG. 2 is an illustrative depiction of a frontal view of a card that may include a
representation of a CID, in accordance with some embodiments herein.               In some
embodiments, the card shown in FIG. 2 might include, for example, a payment card, a
credit card, a debit card, a loyalty program card, a badge, a license, a passport card, a
radio frequency apparatus, and/or a contactless card. By way of example, FIG. 2 is an
illustrative frontal view of a display card 200 payment device having a having a
substantially planar card-shaped body 205, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure. In particular, illustrated is a substantially card-shaped body 205 that
may comprise an International Standards Organization/International Electrotechnical
Commission ("ISO/IEC") 7810 ID-1 sized card having a thickness of 0.76 mm (0.030 in)
and a top area of 85.60    x 53.98 mm (3.370     x 2.125 in) with rounded corners having a
radius of 2.88-3.48 mm.       However, this size and shape are provided for illustrative
purposes only.      Those skilled in the art, upon reading the present disclosure, will
appreciate that other shapes, form factors, sizes, and configurations of card-shaped or
other shaped bodies may be used in conjunction with embodiments of the present
disclosure.
Card body 205 may be formed of one or more sheets of plastic or other materials. Card
body 205 might be formed of different materials.              It is noted that any of the
embodiments described herein may be formed of other materials having appropriate
properties compatible with this disclosure, such as strength, luminosity, and/or flexibility.

                                             -9
According to some embodiments, card 200 further includes a PAN 210 that is
embossed or printed on a face of the card. In some embodiments, card 200 may further
include a cardholder's name 215 and an expiration date(s) 220 that are embossed or
printed on the front of the care.
FIG. 3 is an illustrative depiction of a rear view of a card 300, in accordance with some
embodiments herein.        In some embodiments, card 300 corresponds to the card
depicted in FIG. 2. Card body 305 includes a magnetic stripe having data encoded
therein. The data stored within the magnetic stripe may include payment credentials
such as, but not limited to, the PAN of the cardholder and security code(s).              In
accordance with some aspects herein, the CID value and the PAN (e.g. 210) are
encoded in magnetic stripe 310. The particular format of CID is not limited to a specific
configuration in some embodiments herein. For example, the CID may be encrypted in
some instances. In some embodiments, the data representation of the PAN and the
CID may be separately stored within magnetic stripe 310. In some embodiment, the
format or configuration of the CID (e.g., length, syntax, etc.) is compatible with existing
card manufacturing, encoding, and processing systems and methods.
Card 300 may further include a signature block wherein the cardholder signs card 300
with their signature 315. In some embodiments, a security feature such as a security
code 320 is embossed on card face 305. In some instances, security code 320 may be
a two or three digit or any other number of digits security code.
In accordance with some embodiments herein, a CID value 325 assigned to the
cardholder may be printed, laser-etched, embossed, or otherwise affixed to card face
305. The format of the CID value is not limited to the example shown in FIG. 3. In
particular, the number of digits comprising the CID may differ from the illustrated
example.

                                             - 10
FIG. 4 is an illustrative schematic block diagram of a payment vehicle in accordance
with some embodiments herein.          In particular, FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of a
contactless, proximity payment device 400 according to some embodiments. Proximity
payment device 400 may be sized and shaped like a conventional credit card or debit
card, and may be primarily constructed of plastic or a composite material.       Proximity
payment device 400 includes a processor 405, at least one storage device 410, and a
wireless communication interface 425.            Storage device 410 may comprise any
appropriate information storage device, including combinations of storage devices, for
example, integrated circuits and/or semiconductor memory devices (such as Random
Access Memory (RAM) devices and Read Only Memory (ROM) devices), flash memory,
and a solid state drive. Storage device 410 may be any suitable computer readable
medium and/or any form of non-transitory computer readable media capable of storing
data, and in some implementations may also be capable of storing or configured to
store computer instructions and/or application programs that are executable by a
processor.
In some embodiments, storage device 410 may include memory space that stores at
least a CID 415 and a PAN 420. Storage device 410 may also be configured to store
additional other information that may be used in transactions, either financial and/or
non-financial transactions. In some embodiments, storage device 410 may store one or
more application programs and/or computer-readable instructions configured to instruct
processor 405 to perform functions in accordance with one or more processes,
including but not limited to those disclosed herein. In some embodiments, processor
405 may be a secure microcontroller. In some aspects, CID 415 and PAN 420 may be
contained within one or more secure storage portions of storage device 410. Processor
405 may be configured to execute one or more pre-defined mobile device transaction
programs or applications stored within the storage device 410, such as for example
"app" configured to facilitate participation in a loyalty program or service.

                                          - 11
Wireless communication interface 425 allows proximity payment device 400 to transmit
and/or to receive signals.    The signals transmitted by the wireless communication
interface 425 may include a CID, a PAN, and/or other information stored in the memory
or storage device 410. The signals received by wireless communication interface 425
may include an interrogation signal, a power signal and/or other signals.        In some
embodiments, wireless communication interface 425 may be configured to allow the
proximity payment device 400 to operate in accordance with, for example, the well
known standard for proximity payment devices that has been promulgated by
MasterCard International Incorporated, the assignee hereof, and is referred to as
"PayPass   TM ".
In some embodiments, wireless communication interface 425 includes transmit/receive
circuitry 430 and an antenna 435.     Antenna 435 may be configured to transmit and
receive radio frequency (RF) and/or other communication signals and may comprise a
loop antenna and/or any other suitable device to facilitate reception and transmission of
the signals. Transmit/receive circuitry 430 may be coupled between the antenna 435
and the processor 405.
In operation, wireless signals (for example, RF signals) may be received by antenna
435 and supplied to transmit/receive circuitry 430, which in response may provide
signals that are supplied to processor 405. Processor 405 may provide signals that are
supplied to the transmit/receive circuitry 430, which in response may provide signals
that are supplied to the antenna 435 for wireless transmission to, for example, a
proximity reader device associated with a POS terminal.
In some embodiments, wireless communication by card 400 may be based on a radio
frequency identification (RFID)    IC, near field communication (NFC),         and other
communication technologies.

                                             -12
In some embodiments, the contactless proximity payment device of FIG. 4 may be
combined with other features of other payment vehicle devices.             For example, the
contactless card proximity payment device of FIG. 4 may include a magnetic stripe such
as that disclosed in FIG. 1. Such a device may be referred to as a hybrid or dual
interface payment device that includes both a contactless communication interface
(e.g., RFID IC, NFC, etc.) and a contact interface (e.g., magnetic stripe, conductive
contacts, etc.). A dual interface payment device may have the CID value and payment
credentials stored in the magnetic stripe, a memory component of the payment device,
and a combination thereof.        In some embodiments, a contactless payment device
having a CID value representation stored therein may include a display. The display
may include one or more display technologies such as, for example, light emitting
diodes, a thin film display, a liquid crystal display, an active-matrix organic light-emitting
diode display, an organic light-emitting diode display, and others.                 In some
embodiments, the CID may be presented in the display.
For example, card 400 may include one or more processors and one or memory
devices (not shown).
In some aspects herein, embodiments of a payment device may be embodied in an
application, "app", program, a browser (or browser-enabled application, extension, or
add-on, and service), non-transitory computer-readable instructions and the like
executing on a mobile device, and a device having a processor to execute an
application or program instructions. In some aspects, such devices may be said to be
encompassed by disclosures herein referring to a "mobile device", even where such an
electronic device may not necessarily be easily transported (e.g., a desktop PC).            In
some aspects, the mobile device may be a device including telephony functionality and
implemented as any number of different hardware, software, and combination thereof
configurations.    For example, FIG. 5 is a block diagram of an apparatus, device, or

                                           - 13
system for a multifunctional mobile device 500 including a mobile or cellular telephone
capability and a short-range wireless communication capability. FIG. 5 does not imply
or necessarily represent a physical layout of mobile device 500. In its hardware and in
some of its software/firmware, mobile device 500 may be substantially conventional.
However, mobile      device 500 may include hardware, software,          firmware, and
combinations thereof to implement and embody aspects of the present disclosure,
including the methods and processes herein.
Mobile device 500 may include a conventional housing (not explicitly shown) that
contains and/or supports the other components of the mobile telephone. The housing
may, for example, be shaped and sized so as to be held in the user's hand. In some
embodiments, device 500 may be housed in a device such as a tablet computing device
and other form factors.
Mobile device 500 may include a processor 505 that processes and controls data in the
mobile device that is interfaced with a memory 510 and capable of executing program
instructions 515 stored in memory 510, a transceiver 540 for transmitting and receiving
communication signals to and from antenna 542, and a RF detector 545 comprising part
of the transceiver for detecting RF signals. Though not separately depicted in FIG. 5,
memory 510 may include or encompass, in various embodiments, random access
memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), a SIM card, a solid state drive, flash
memory, and other types and forms of data storage devices and media. The processes
disclosed herein may be implemented by the components of mobile device 500. For
example, memory 510 may store a CID value 520 under the control of processor 505
and programs 525 to effectuate various applications and services.          The program
instructions, programs, applications, and "apps" described herein and the data used
thereby may be stored, at least in part, in a compressed, uncompiled and/or encrypted
format.

                                          - 14
Transceiver 540 may be coupled to antenna 542 and connects to the communication
channel(s) by which mobile telephone 500 communicates via a mobile network (not
shown).    The transceiver is in communication with antenna 542 that may serve to
transmit and receive wireless wide-range and short-range communication signals.
Mobile telephone 500 may also include an input device 530 (e.g., a keypad, keyboard,
touchscreen system, voice input components, etc.) for receiving inputs from a user, and
an output device 535 (e.g., a speaker, an indicator light, a display, etc.) for providing an
output of the mobile telephone to the user or other entities.
In conventional fashion, transceiver 540 operates to transmit, via antenna 542, voice
signals received from a user through input device 530, and operates to reproduce, via
output device 535 (e.g., a speaker), voice signals received via antenna 542.
Transceiver 540 may also further operate to handle transmission and reception of text
messages and/or other data communications via antenna 542. In some embodiments,
mobile telephone 500 may transmit wireless communication signals in any frequency
range and power, including those now used and those that may be used in the future
without limit.
Mobile telephone 500 may be capable of communicating with another device via cellular
telephone signals as provided by a cellular component or module 560 and a variety of
short-range communication protocols, such as and by NFC signals as provided by NFC
module or components 565 or the like, Bluetooth@ as provided by a Bluetooth@ module
575, and by a wireless local area network (e.g., Wi-Fi, based on IEEE 802.11 b/g/n or
other standards) as provided by a Wifi module 580.
In some embodiments, mobile telephone 500 may be a NFC-enabled mobile telephone
equipped to operate as a secure proximity payment device and interact/communicate
with another device (not shown in FIG. 5) such as a ticket kiosk/device and a
contactless-POS terminal or other device that may include a radio frequency

                                           - 15
identification ("RFID") tag. In some embodiments, the contactless-POS or other device
and mobile telephone 500 may typically be positioned in close proximity of each other
when communicating using NFC signals.          In some aspects, the contactless-POS or
other device and mobile telephone 500 may be within about 0 - 10 millimeters of each
other in order for a RF power field generated by either the mobile telephone and the
contactless-POS terminal or other device to transfer data therebetween.
In some embodiments, the methods and processes herein, including the functionality
and operation of a mobile device or other wireless communication mobile device in
accordance with the methods and processes herein related to a CID may be included,
supplied, or otherwise provisioned with the mobile telephone or other wireless
communication mobile device to operate independently of any other features of the
mobile telephone or other wireless communication mobile device. In some aspects, at
least some aspects of the mobile device's functionality to operate as a payment device
may be stored or located in secure element 550. The configuration of secure element
550 may be provided in conformance with one or more industry "standards".
Regarding a device such as, for example, mobile device 500 herein, a user or
cardholder may obtain an application or functionality for storing and transmitting a CID
with the aid of the mobile device. In one embodiment, the payment device user may
download a mobile "app" from an issuer, an "app" store or service compatible with the
mobile device, or a third party to their mobile device. Once the payment device user is
enabled to operate to obtain and store a CID, the user may link or otherwise associate
their CID with one or more PANs with, for example, the assistance of an app executing
on the mobile device, so that they can include their CID in a transaction use during an
e-commerce shopping experience.
FIG. 6 is a block diagram illustrating a CID enabled payment device and system 500
according to an embodiment herein. System 600 may be used to initiate and complete

                                           -16
Internet-based, e-commerce, and other transactions in accordance with processes
described herein.    In some aspects, the CID stored on mobile device 610 may be
automatically entered into an e-commerce shopping cart presence of a merchant 620
presented in an internet browser on computing device 615 and in some embodiments
the CID may be entered into the merchant's system via a contact or contactless
payment card or device reader (not shown). Computing device 615 which may be a
laptop computer, desktop computer, tablet computing device and the like, is connected
(wirelessly and/or via cables, such as fiber-optic cable, WiFi, etc.) to merchant 520. A
consumer cardholder or user may provide payment information to the merchant during a
checkout at the merchant's e-commerce site. The payment information may include a
PAN (or proxy thereof), a security code value (e.g., a CVC), and other information. In
some embodiments, the CID stored on card 605 and mobile device 610 may be
transmitted to computing device 615 via a contact or contactless reader or entered via a
user interface by the user. The user interface may comprise a touchscreen, a keypad,
and keyboard, and speaker, and other user input devices.
The payment device or vehicle comprising card 605 may be a portable digital device,
such as a key fob, a chip card, and some other token. In some aspects, the mobile
device 610 having a mobile app executing thereon may include a tablet computing
device, a multimedia player, a smartwatch, and the like.
Transaction details, including the payment information and the CID associated with and
identifying the user, are transmitted to merchant 620. Merchant 620 receives the CID
and the payment information including the PAN and other information (e.g., a card
security value).   Merchant 620 may forward an authorization request including the
received CID to acquirer 625.       In some aspects, merchant 620 may generate the
transaction request in accordance with industry "standards" governing a purchase
transaction including a PAN.     An aspect of some embodiments herein includes the
inclusion of a CID value in the authorization request in addition to the PAN. The CID is

                                             - 17
included in the authorization request to be used as the primary identifier of the user
(e.g., cardholder or mobile payment device 610 user), whereas the included PAN will
primarily be used as an indicator of the payment account to use in the transaction as a
source of funds.
In accordance with some embodiments herein, the CID included in the authorization
request may be a single value. The CID may be a string of a plurality of numeric values
that is uniquely associated with one entity that serves to accurately authenticate the
identity of that entity. The CID may be appended to a message (e.g., authorization
request) to be routed to a payment network 630.
Referring still to FIG. 6, the authorization request is sent from merchant 620 to acquirer
625 who in turn routes the authorization request to payment network 630. Again, the
authorization request includes the CID value in addition to payment credentials received
from the merchant.
In some aspects, the payment network operator may, at least, route the authorization
request to payment processor 635 that facilitates processing of payment transactions.
In some embodiments, processor 635 may transmit the authorization request including
the PAN to an issuer 640 for authorization (or denial) of the authorization request. The
issuer may generate an authorization response in reply to the authorization request that
is routed back to merchant 620 via payment network 630. In some embodiments, the
acquirer, payment network operator, processor, and issuer may treat the authorization
request including a CID and a PAN the same or similar to an authorization request only
including a PAN from the perspective of processing a purchase transactions'
authorization request.
In some aspects, payment network 630, and more particularly an operator of the
payment network, may store the CID transmitted in the authorization request in a

                                             - 18
memory device or data store under its control.         The CID may be stored with other
information included in the authorization request, such as payment credentials (e.g., the
PAN) and/or transaction details including but not limited to the merchant involved in the
transaction, the details of the item(s) being purchased, etc.
In some embodiments, the payment network operator may determine by a computer or
other processor-based machine whether the PAN received thereby is to be forwarded to
other devices, systems, and entities. For example, the payment network operator may
determine that the PAN received in an authorization request in connection with a
purchase transaction is to be forwarded to issuer 640 for clearing and settlement
purposes. In another example, the payment network operator may determine that the
PAN received in an authorization request in connection with a purchase transaction
need not be forwarded to loyalty program operator 650 that services and manages a
loyalty program to which the user of payment device 605, 610 is a registered participant.
It may be determined that PAN received in an authorization request (or other messages
by other methods) need not be forwarded to the loyalty program operator and others
since the loyalty program operator and others do not need to have the PAN since the
CID that will be sent to them accurately and sufficiently identifies the user independently
of the PAN. The CID operates to identify the user so that the PAN need not be used as
an identifier of the user. Accordingly, since the loyalty program operator does not need
the PAN to service and manage the user's loyalty program account (i.e., a non-financial
transaction) if the user's identity is otherwise accurately known, then the loyalty program
operator is provide the CID value without the PAN.
In some embodiments, the payment network operator may provide both the PAN and
the CID to issuer 640. The process of routing the PAN to the issuer may be subject to
one or more laws, regulations, and applicable industry "standards" that govern how
securely the PAN must be stored, transmitted, and processed. As such, handling of the
PAN by the issuer may be considered a secure operation given the processes and

                                             - 19
mechanisms implemented to safeguard the storage, transmission, and processing of
the PAN. Given the security measures that may be used regarding the processing of
the PAN sent to, for example, the issuer, the routing of a CID along with the PAN may
also be considered a secure operation.
In some embodiments herein, the CID may be generated by the payment network
provider or another entity at 645. The CID may be generated at 645 and provided to the
payment network provider at 630. In the instance the CID is generated by the payment
network provider at 630, there may or may not be a separation between network 630
and the generation of the CID at 645. In some embodiments, the CID may be received
from 645 during an initial CID generation and/or registration process.            The CID
registration process may include associating the CID with a particular user entity and/or
associating the CID with one or more PANs.
In some embodiments, the payment network operator may provide only the CID to
loyalty program operator 650 and other third-party entities.        In some aspects, the
process of routing the CID may alleviate the need or requirement to adhere to the one
or more laws, regulations, and applicable industry "standards" that govern how securely
the PAN must be stored, transmitted, and processed. As such, processing of the CID
(without the PAN) by the loyalty program operator may be less complex and possibly
burdensome since the PAN is not transmitted to the loyalty program operator or others
for non-financial transactions.
Referring still to FIG. 6, the CID value and other details associated with the purchase
transaction other than the payment credentials (e.g., the PAN) may be stored in data
warehouse 655.       Once stored, this information may be used for a variety of non
financial service transactions.    Such transactions may include but not be limited to
fulfillment, data sharing, and servicing of a loyalty program and other services.

                                           - 20
FIG. 7 is an illustrative depiction of a process 700 related to aspects of processing a
transaction including a CID, in accordance with some embodiments herein.               At
operation 705, an authorization request associated with a transaction is received by, for
example, a merchant. As discussed at other points herein, the transaction may include
a payment vehicle of various implementations. Accordingly, the consumer cardholder
user may be asked to provide their PAN. In accordance with some the user may also
be asked to provide their CID.     In some embodiments, the PAN and the CID may be
provided in an authorization request, wherein the PAN and CID are automatically
obtained from the storage mechanism of the payment vehicle (e.g., magnetic stripe,
memory device, chip, etc.). The authorization request may further include additional
transaction details related to the transaction such as a merchant identifier, line item
details related to the item(s) being purchased, etc. In some aspects, at least the PAN
and CID value are included in the authorization request, although additional information
may also be included.       Inclusion of the CID provides a mechanism for uniquely
identifying the payment vehicle's user that is separate and independent of the PAN.
At operation 710, the PAN and CID may be stored by a payment network operator in a
memory device, system, or facility. The PAN and CID may be stored for further use,
where such use of the PAN and CID may be independent of each other. Independent
use of the PAN and CID is facilitated by aspects disclosed herein since the PAN may be
used primarily as an identifier of a payment account associated with the payment
vehicle user and not as an identifier of the payment vehicle user. The CID however
may indeed be used primarily as an identifier of the payment vehicle user, independent
and without any reliance on the PAN. The CID uniquely identifies the payment vehicle
user and may be associated with one or more PANs.
Continuing with process 700, operation 715 may include a determination of whether the
transaction details are to be processed as at least a non-financial transaction. In the
instance the transaction details received in the authorization request are to be

                                            -21
processed as a non-financial transaction, those transaction details may be stored,
processed, and transmitted to various entities with the CID included therein to act as an
identifier of the payment vehicle user. The non-financial transaction may not need to
know the payment credentials associated with the transaction and as such, the PAN
need not be stored, processed, and transmitted to various entities wherein the PAN
would primarily be used as an identifier of the payment vehicle user.
In the instance the transaction details received in the authorization request of operation
705 are to be processed as a financial transaction, requiring the knowledge of the
payment details associated with the transaction, then the PAN may be may be stored,
processed, and transmitted to various entities to act as an identifier of the payment
account associated with the payment vehicle. In some embodiments, the CID may also
be transmitted and processed in connection with at least some financial transactions.
At operation 720, in response to the determination that the transaction details are to be
processed as at least a non-financial transaction, the transaction details are processed
based on the CID without using the PAN. In this manner, the PAN need not be stored,
transmitted, and stored by entities that need not know the payment credentials
associated with various transactions due to the separation of payment vehicle user
identifier and payment credential identifier provided by the CID and PAN, respectively.
FIG. 8 is a block diagram overview of a system or apparatus 800 according to some
embodiments.      System 800 may be, for example, associated with any of the devices
described herein, including for example a merchant system device and an application
server supporting or providing a CID generation, storage, processing, and transmitting.
System 800 comprises a processor 805, such as one or more commercially available
Central Processing Units (CPUs) in the form of one-chip microprocessors or a multi
core processor, coupled to a communication device 815 configured to communicate via
a communication network (not shown in FIG. 8) to another device or system.          In the

                                           - 22
instance system 800 comprises a server (e.g., supporting the functions and services
provided by a card verifier entity), communication device 815 may provide a means for
system 800 to interface with a client device (e.g., a merchant system device). System
800 may also include a local memory 810, such as RAM memory modules. The system
further includes an input device 820 (e.g., a touchscreen, mouse and/or keyboard to
enter content) and an output device 825 (e.g., a touchscreen, a computer monitor to
display, a LCD display).
Processor 805 communicates with a storage device 830.          Storage device 830 may
comprise any appropriate information storage device, including combinations of
magnetic storage devices (e.g., a hard disk drive), optical storage devices, solid state
drives, and/or semiconductor memory devices. In some embodiments, storage device
may comprise a database system.
Storage device 830 stores program code 835 that may provide computer executable
instructions for processing a transaction including, in some aspects a CID received in an
authorization request for a particular transaction involving a PAN, in accordance with
processes herein. Processor 805 may perform the instructions of the program code 835
to thereby operate in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein.
Program code 835 may be stored in a compressed, uncompiled and/or encrypted
format. Program code 835 may furthermore include other program elements, such as
an operating system, a database management system, and/or device drivers used by
the processor 805 to interface with, for example, peripheral devices. Storage device
830 may also include data 840 such as database records or look-up tables, including
records including a CID.    Data 840 may be used by system 800, in some aspects, in
performing the processes herein, including the storage, processing, and transmission of
the CID.

                                             - 23
All systems and processes discussed herein may be embodied in program code stored
on one or more non-transitory computer-readable media. Such media may include, for
example, a floppy disk, a CD-ROM, a DVD-ROM, magnetic tape, solid state drives, and
solid state Random Access Memory (RAM) or Read Only Memory (ROM) storage units.
According to some embodiments, a memory storage unit may be associated with
access patterns and         may be     independent from      the device   (e.g., magnetic,
optoelectronic, semiconductor/solid-state, etc.) Moreover, in-memory technologies may
be used such that databases, etc. may be completely operated in RAM memory at a
processor.     Embodiments are therefore not limited to any specific combination of
hardware and software.
Embodiments have been described herein solely for the purpose of illustration. Persons
skilled in the art will recognize from this description that embodiments are not limited to
those described, but may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by
the spirit and scope of the appended claims.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising",
will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers
or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                           - 24
Claims Defining the Invention
1.      A computer-implemented method, the method comprising:
        receiving, at a payment network operator computer system, an authorization
request message associated with a transaction and satisfying one or more payment
processing regulations, the authorization request message comprising transaction
details, a payment account number (PAN) corresponding to a payment vehicle and a
consumer identification value (CID), the CID uniquely identifying a cardholder of the
payment vehicle without identifying the PAN;
          transmitting, by the    payment    network  operator computer     system,  the
authorization request message including the transaction details and the PAN according
to the one or more payment processing regulations to an issuer computing system for
processing of the financial transaction;
          determining, by the payment network operator computer system, that the
transaction details are to be further processed as a non-financial transaction based on
the CID being included in the authorization request message, and based on processing
of the financial transaction; and
          determining, by the payment network operator computer system, not to use the
PAN from the transaction details to identify the cardholder for the non-financial
transaction but instead use the CID to represent the identity of the cardholder,
generating, by the payment network operator computer system, a modified authorization
request message with the PAN removed thereby alleviating a need for satisfying the
one or more payment processing regulations, and forwarding the modified authorization
request message to a loyalty program operator computing system to settle the non
financial transaction for the cardholder, the modified authorization request message
including the transaction details and the CID, and not including the PAN.
2.        The method of claim 1, further comprising:

                                            - 25
         automatically removing, in response to the determination that the transaction
details are to be processed in the non-financial transaction, the PAN from the
transaction details prior to forwarding the modified authorization request message.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the CID is a single value comprising a string of
a plurality of numerals.
4.       The method of claim 3, wherein the string of the plurality of numerals is not
based on the PAN.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the CID is further associated with at least one
additional other PAN.
6.       The method of claim 1, wherein the CID is received from a payment vehicle at a
point of a sale for a merchant.
7.       The method of claim 6, wherein the payment vehicle comprises at least one of a
card having a magnetic stripe to store the PAN and CID, a card having a memory to
store the PAN and CID, a device having a memory to store the PAN and CID, and a
device having a display to present the PAN and CID.
8.       The method of claim 1, wherein the CID is received from a payment network
operator device.
9.       A payment processing apparatus comprising:
         a processor; and
         a memory device in communication with the processor and storing program
instructions thereon, wherein, when executed, the        program instructions cause the
processor to:

                                            -26
              receive an authorization request message associated with a financial
       transaction and satisfying one or more payment processing regulations, the
       authorization request message comprising transaction details, a payment
       account number (PAN) and a consumer identification value (CID), the CID
       uniquely and separately identifying a cardholder corresponding to the PAN
       without identifying the PAN;
              transmit the authorization request message including the transaction
       details and the PAN according to the one or more payment processing
       regulations to an issuer computing system for processing the financial
       transaction;
              determine that the transaction details are to be further processed as a
       non-financial transaction based on the CID being included in the authorization
       request message and based on processing of the financial transaction; and
              determine not to use the PAN from the transaction details to identify the
       cardholder for the non-financial transaction but instead use the CID to represent
       the identity of the cardholder, generate a modified authorization request message
       with the PAN removed thereby alleviating a need for satisfying the one or more
       payment processing regulations, and forward the modified authorization request
       message to a loyalty program operator computing system to settle the non
       financial transaction for the cardholder, the modified authorization request
       message including the transaction details and the CID, and not including the
       PAN.
10.      The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the processor is further operative to:
         automatically remove, in response to the determination that the transaction
details are to be processed in the non-financial transaction, the PAN from the
transaction details prior to forwarding the modified authorization request message.

                                           - 27
11.      The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the CID is a single value comprising a string
of a plurality of numerals.
12.      The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the string of the plurality of numerals is not
based on the PAN.
13.      The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the CID is further associated with at least
one additional other PAN.
14.      The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the CID is received from a payment vehicle
at a point of a sale for a merchant.
15.      The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the payment vehicle comprises at least one
of a card having a magnetic stripe to store the PAN and CID, a card having a memory to
store the PAN and CID, a device having a memory to store the PAN and CID, and a
device having a display to present the PAN and CID.
16.      The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the processor is further operative to generate
the CID.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
