         ABSTRACT
         An electric cutting tool is provided which includes a motor, a cutting member
driven by the motor, an illuminating device, and a controller for controlling the
illuminating device. The cutting member is adapted to move in a repetitive way
during operation. The controller is adapted to control the illuminating device
according to a rate of a movement of the cutting member to generate an illumination
varied in a particular frequency, the particular frequency making the cutting member
representing a still visual effect when the cutting member is moving at the rate. As
the invention using a stroboscopic effect, the electric cutting tool does not need to
stop the motor or reduce the speed of the cutting to carry out the alignment, so that
a high working efficiency is ensured.
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

         1/5
               22
  30
.3f
           24     20
  26
     28
        Fig. 1

                                               1
                                 ELECTRIC CUTTING TOOL
FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001] The invention relates to an electric cutting tool, and more particularly to a
cutting device with a work component capable of performing repetitive movement.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Various types of electric cutting tools are widely used in daily life and
industries, including jig saws, mitre saws, reciprocating saws and the like. In
general, the user makes a cutting member of the electric cutting tool touching the
workpiece to be cut during use, and precisely controls the direction, angle and
speed of cutting to achieve the desired cutting effect.
[0003] However, a problem existing in the present electric cutting tools is that
during operation, it is difficult for the user to align the saw blade with the workpieces
or to determine the penetration depth of the saw blade. This is because the saw
blade usually undergoes high-speed repetitive movements during operation, which
makes it difficult to determine a specific position or an extension length of the saw
blade with naked eyes. One solution provided in the prior art is to make the electric
cutting tool "memorize" the position of the saw blade and then suspend the
movement of the saw blade to bring it to a stationary status. The saw blade restores
movement after the user having completed the alignment of the saw blade. This
method still has deficiency because in order to achieve such functions, not only a
large number of components need to be added in the electric cutting tool to assist in
achieving the function, but also the electric cutting tool needs to suspend working at
all times, and it seriously impacts the efficiency of operation.
SUMMARY
[0004] Therefore, the embodiments of the invention provide an improved electric
cutting tool to overcome or at least relieve the above technical problem.
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

                                              2
[0005] In an aspect of the invention, an electric cutting tool is provided which
includes a motor, a cutting member driven by the motor, an illuminating device, and
a controller for controlling the illuminating device. The cutting member is adapted to
move in a repetitive way during operation. The controller is adapted to control the
illuminating device according to a rate of a movement of the cutting member to
generate an illumination varied in a particular frequency, the particular frequency
making the cutting member representing a still visual effect when the cutting
member is moving at the rate.
[0006] Preferably, the electric cutting tool further contains a sensor for measuring
a rotational speed of the motor, and the sensor measures the rotational speed of
the motor during operation as well transmitting the speed to the controller. The
controller generates a signal according to the speed of the motor and controls the
illuminating device to generate the illumination varied in the particular frequency.
[0007] More preferably, the sensor is a Hall sensor fixed to the motor.
[0008] In a variant embodiment, the electric cutting tool further contains a switch
connected to the controller. The switch enables the controller to control the
illuminating device to generate the illumination varied in the particular frequency or
prohibit the controller to generate the illumination varied in the particular frequency.
[0009] In a further variant embodiment, the controller is adapted to prohibit the
illuminating device to generate the illumination varied in the particular frequency
when the speed of the cutting member is lower than ta threshold.
[0010] In a specific embodiment, the electric cutting tool is a jig saw.
[0011] In another specific embodiment, wherein the illuminating device is a
light-emitting diode.
[0012] Therefore, the invention uses the stroboscopic effect to overcome the
problem of being difficult to align and measure a position of the cutting member
because of the movement of the cutting member of the electric cutting tool leading
to an unclear and blurred shadow. The application of the stroboscopic effect does
not require any modification to the mechanical transmission part or the motor
control circuit of the electric cutting tool, instead it is located in the electric cutting
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

                                           3
tool as an additional part. During the course of cutting, because the user usually
needs to align before a cutting and during a cutting, the technical solution provided
by the invention does not need to stop the motor or reduce the speed of the cutting
at all to carry out the alignment. Therefore, a high working efficiency can be
ensured.
[0013] In addition, the electric cutting tool does not need an additional sensor to
achieve a controlling of the light stroboscopic frequency, instead it uses the existing
motor Hall sensor as a means for of sensing the speed of the movement of the
cutting tool. This achieves a minimum change of the structure of the electric cutting
tool, and saves the cost. In addition, the present invention can be dynamically
adapted to a wide range of operating from low speed to full speed of the motor,
without being limited to a certain particular speed range. In addition, the present
invention works well under off-load condition as well as actual cutting condition of
the electric cutting tools.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014] A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the present
invention may be realized with reference to the remaining portions of the
specification and the drawings. The same reference numerals are used throughout
the several drawings. In some cases, sub-numerals are placed after a certain
numeral and hyphen to indicate one of many similar components. When a label is
referred but do not specify one of the existing sub-numerals, it is intended to refer to
all these similar components.
[0015] Fig. 1 is a three-dimensional view of an appearance of the jig saw
according to a first embodiment according to the invention;
[0016] Fig. 2 is a front view of the jig saw in the Fig. 1, wherein it illustrates a
light-emitting diode (LED) mounted on a base plate.
[0017] Fig.3 is a top view of the jig saw in the Fig.1, wherein it illustrates a LED
mounted on the base plate.
[0018] Fig.4 is a schematic diagram of the control circuit of the jig saw in Fig.1.
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

                                            4
[0019] Fig.5 shows the difference between visual effects caused by a quick
illuminating changing frequency and a slow illuminating changing frequency of the
LED.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0020] Embodiments of the present invention use a stroboscopic effect to reduce
the problem of shadows and blurs caused by a moving cutting member to the eyes
of the human. Other different advantages and benefits provided by various
embodiments of the invention can be easily realized from the following descriptions.
[0021] As shown in Fig.1, the first embodiment of the invention is a jig saw 20,
comprising a housing 30, a saw blade 28, and a base plate 24. The housing 30
contains a power system (not shown) including a brushless motor as the core
component. The brushless motor is for driving the saw blade 28, making it moving
in a reciprocating way, so as to cut an object (i.e. the workpiece) to be cut that is
located outside the base plate 24. There is an opening 26 in the central position of
the base plate 24 to permit the saw blade 28 to penetrate the base plate 24 in a
vertical direction. A handle 22 is formed at the rear part of the housing 30 with
respect to the saw blade 28, so as to enable the user grasp the jig saw during use.
The conventional structure and the working principle of the jig saw are known to a
person skilled in the art and will not be described in details.
[0022] Now see Fig.2 and Fig.3. A LED 32 as an illuminating device is mounted on
an end of the opening 26 of the base plate 24. The LED 32 is located in a position
such that the LED can directly illuminate the saw blade 28. Preferably, the LED 32
is located immediately beneath the saw blade 28, i.e. a middle position of the base
plate 24, so as to ensure the illumination of the LED no matter the user looks from
which side of the saw blade 28. Therefore it achieves the visually stationary effect in
the invention. The LED 32 is totally contained in an internal part of the opening 26
and does not protrude from the opening 26. This prevents the LED 32 from
hindering the base plate 24 to be entirely pressed against the workpiece during
operation.
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

                                             5
[0023] Fig.4 shows a controlling circuit of the LED in the jig saw to achieve the
technical effect of the invention. The jig saw in its inner part includes a brushless
motor and a motor Hall sensor 42 mounted in the brushless motor. As is well known
to a person skilled in the art, a brushless motor typically has one or more Hall
sensors mounted on a motor end cap or a Hall circuit board inside the motor, so as
to detect the rotational speed of the motor by means of changes in the magnetic
field induced by magnets fixed on the rotor. The controller 40 is connected to the
motor Hall sensor 42 to receive the signals it provides, and the controller 40 is also
connected to the LED 32 to control the frequency of illumination changes of the LED
32.
[0024] During operation, the user initiates rotation of the motor by manipulating a
switch on the jig saw, such as a trigger, etc., and the rotational speed of the motor
may change according to the user's input, for example according to the degree of
depression of the trigger. Then, the rotational speed of the motor is detected by the
Hall sensor 42 and is fed back as an electrical signal from the motor Hall sensor 42
to the controller 40 of the LED 32 in Fig. 4. According to the rotational speed of the
motor, the controller 40 can convert it into the movement frequency/speed of the
cutting member. It should be noted that the rotational speed of the motor will not be
directly equal to the movement frequency/speed of the cutting member because
there are a series of transmission mechanisms and speed transformation devices
between the motor and the cutting member. The controller 40 then controls the
frequency of illumination changes of the LED 32 based on the movement
frequency/speed of the cutting member. Such controlling of the LED 32 can be
achieved by generating a pulsed output current. The LED 32 generates a
stroboscopic effect upon receiving of the pulsed current, and such a stroboscopic
effect causes the frequency of illumination changes to be the same as the
frequency of the pulse.
[0025] It should be noted that the different frequency of illumination changes of the
LED will lead to a different effect of jig saw with naked eyes. Fig. 5 shows three
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

                                            6
different visual effects generated when the frequency of illumination changes of the
LED from high to low. At a particular frequency of illumination changes of the LED,
as indicated by arrow 60 in FIG. 5, the visual effect the user sees with the naked
eyes is that the saw blade appears to be stationary. Such a particular frequency is
an integer multiple of the movement frequency of the saw blade itself. When the
frequency of illumination changes of the LED is lower than the particular frequency
but larger than an previous integer multiple of the particular frequency, for example
when the frequency of illumination changes of the LED lies between 1 and 2 times
of the movement frequency of the saw blade itself, then an illusion of rearward
movement of the saw blade is generated, as indicated by a region 62 in Fig. 5.
Conversely, when the frequency of illumination changes of the LED is higher than a
particular frequency but lower than a next integer multiple of the particular
frequency, for example, when the frequency of illumination changes of the LED lies
between 2 and 3 times of the movement frequency of the saw blade itself, an
illusion of a forward movement of the saw blade but with a slow movement speed is
generated, as indicated by a region 64 in FIG. 5. Note that the above visual effects
of the still, rearward, and forward movement speeds are all caused by the
stroboscopic effect, and the three visual effects are repeated periodically with an
increasing or decreasing in frequency of illumination changes of the LED.
[0026] Thus, having described the above embodiments, a person skilled in the art
will recognize that various modifications, additional structures, and equivalents may
be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. Accordingly, the above
description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention as determined
by the following claims.
[0027] For example, although a jig saw is used as an example of an electric cutting
tool in the above embodiment to illustrate the invention, a person skilled in the art
will recognize that other types of electric cutting tools, such as reciprocating saws
and mitre saws, may also be applied with the present invention. This is because the
stroboscopic effect can be used for the cutting member with a repeated motion
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

                                            7
along other paths, such as circular saw blade mounted in a mitre saw, in addition to
the saw with a reciprocating motion in a straight line.
[0028] In addition, while the detection of the movement speed of the cutting
member (i.e., the saw blade) in the above embodiment is achieved by a motor Hall
sensor existing in the brushless motor, it should be understood that other types of
sensors may also be used. For example, in the case of a brushed motor, the object
of the present invention can be achieved by mounting a special speed sensor in the
motor.
[0029] In a variant embodiment, the electric cutting tool further contains a switch
connected to the controller. The switch can be manually operated by the user to
enable or disable the above light stroboscopic effect. That is, when the user wants
to temporarily disable the function, he can operate the switch to temporarily make
the LED either to be always on or off. And when the user wants to resume the
function again, he can also operate the switch.
[0030] In another variant embodiment, the firmware carried by the electric cutting
tool may have a function of bypassing, i.e. prohibiting the LED device to generate a
changing illumination when the movement speed of the cutting member is below a
threshold (eg. 12 Hz). Such a design can avoid the user's discomfort or disease
visually caused by the low light stroboscopic frequency of the LED.
[0031] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of
the invention.
[0032] It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of
the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

                                                 8
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
         1. An electric cutting tool, comprising:
         a motor;
         a cutting member driven by the motor, the cutting member adapted for a
repetitive movement during operation;
         an illuminating device; and
         a controller for controlling the illuminating device;
         wherein the controller is adapted for controlling the illuminating device
according to a rate of a movement of the cutting member to generate an illumination
varied in a particular frequency, the particular frequency making the cutting member
representing a still visual effect when the cutting member is moving at said rate.
         2. The electric cutting tool according to claim 1, further comprises a sensor for
measuring a rotational speed of the motor; the sensor measuring the rotational
speed of the motor during the operation and transmitting the speed to the controller;
the controller generating a signal according to the speed of the motor and
controlling the illuminating device to generate the illumination varied in the particular
frequency.
         3. The electric cutting tool according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is a Hall
sensor fixed to the motor.
         4. The electric cutting tool according to claim 2, further comprises a switch
connected to the controller; the switch adapted to enable the controller to control the
illuminating device to generate the illumination varied in the particular frequency or
prohibit the illuminating device from generating the illumination varied in the
particular frequency.
         5. The electric cutting tool according to claim 2, wherein the controller is
adapted to prohibit the illuminating device from generating the illumination varied in
the particular frequency when the speed of the cutting member is lower than a
threshold.
         6. The electric cutting tool according to any one of the claims, wherein the
electric cutting tool is a jig saw.
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

                                              9
         7. The electric cutting tool according to claims 1-5, wherein the illuminating
device is a light-emitting diode.
9864998_1 (GHMatters) P107961.AU

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/5

                          5/5
<removed-date>
                    <U+2663>                    <U+2701>
                  ! " !         %        ! " !
              #       $         <U+2663>   &'           <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                                 <U+25C6>

