                                       ABSTRACT
       A composition having from 45% to 90%, by weight, of a first portion and from
10% to 55%, by weight, a second portion. The first portion has a lower melting point
than the second portion.    The first portion can have a higher water activity than the
second portion. The first portion contains a sensitive ingredient which can be a Probiotic.
The composition can be a supplement intended to be given to a pet.

                                                  1
 5               COMPOSITION COMPRISING A SENSITIVE INGREDIENT
                                     FIELD OF INVENTION
              The present invention relates to compositions, more specifically supplements
   that contain a sensitive ingredient.
10
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to compositions, such as supplements that can be fed
   to a pet.    The compositions can contain sensitive ingredients.        One problem with
   manufacturing compositions that contain sensitive ingredients is that sensitive ingredients
15 are often susceptible to heat and moisture.       Consumers have no easy way to know
   whether the sensitive ingredient in a composition has been exposed to excessive heat or
   moisture, which can compromise the sensitive ingredient. Therefore, consumers can use
   a composition or administer a composition that does not contain the full health benefits
   that they were anticipating.
20         The compositions of the present invention can have two portions, each with a
   different melting point. This can help improve the aesthetics of the composition. For
   instance, if the first portion melts and the second portion has a higher melting point, the
   second portion can assist in helping the first portion to resolidify into approximately its
   original shape.
25         The melting points can also provide a visual indicator of whether or not the
   sensitive ingredient has been compromised.       The composition can be designed so the
   melting point of the second portion is greater than or equal to the temperature at which
   the sensitive ingredient is compromised. Therefore, if a consumer opens a package and
   the composition appears melted, partially melted or deformed, the consumer will know
30 that the sensitive ingredient may be compromised.
           The compositions of the present invention can also help control moisture. The
   two portions of the present invention can have different water activities. In one example,
   the water activity of the second portion is lower than the water activity of the first
   portion. Many sensitive ingredients, including Probiotic microorganisms, are sensitive to

                                                 2
 5 moisture and the different water activities encourage moisture to migrate towards the
   portion with the lower water activity.
           As such, there remains a need for a composition that provides a visual indicator as
   to whether the sensitive ingredient is compromised, controls the moisture content, and is
   aesthetically appealing.
10
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           A composition comprising: (a) from 45% to 90%, by weight, of a first portion
   wherein the first portion comprises a sensitive ingredient and wherein the first portion has
   a first melting point; and (b) from 10% to 55%, by weight, of a second portion wherein
15 the second portion has a second melting point and wherein the second melting point is
   greater than the first melting point.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           While the specification concludes with claims particularly pointing out and
20 distinctly claiming the subject matter of the present invention, it is believed that the
   invention can be more readily understood from the following description taken in
   connection with the accompanying drawings, in which:
           FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an example of the composition;
           FIG. 2 is a perspective view of a primary package;
25         FIG. 2A is a cross-section view of FIG. 2.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to a composition with a first portion, a second
   portion, and a sensitive ingredient. The second portion can have a different melting point
30 than the first portion. The different melting points can help improve the aesthetics of the
   composition and in some examples can provide a simple visual indicator as to whether or
   not the probiotics have been compromised. In one example, the melting points can differ
   by 2.77 'C (5 degrees Fahrenheit ('F)).
           The melting point difference can also assist as follows. In one example, the first
35 portion can contain the sensitive ingredient and has a melting point that is 2.77 'C (5 'F)

                                                  3
 5 lower than the second portion. The second portion can partially or completely cover the
   second portion.    If the first portion is exposed to conditions that cause it to melt or
   partially melt, the second portion, which can have a higher melting point, can assist in
   allowing the first portion to resolidify into approximately its original shape.       If the
   composition is enclosed within a package, like a blister package as disclosed herein, the
10 second portion can keep the first portion in its desired shape since the second portion
   remains solid and once the temperature has decreased, the first portion can resolidify into
   its initial shape. In one example, the second portion can be formulated so the melting
   point is greater than or equal to the temperature where the sensitive ingredient is
   compromised. Therefore, if the second portion is partially or completely melted or is
15 otherwise deformed then the consumer knows that the sensitive ingredient has been
   compromised and the composition may not provide the benefits that the consumer was
   anticipating.
            In one example, the water activity and the water content of the second portion can
   be lower than the first portion.      In this example the moisture migration is typically
20 towards the second portion and away from the first portion, which can be especially
   advantageous if the second portion is substantially free of a sensitive ingredient while the
   first portion comprises a sensitive ingredient.
            As used herein, the term "adapted for use" means that the pet food products
   described can meet the American Association of Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) safety
25 requirements for providing pet food products for a pet as may be amended from time to
   time.
            As used herein, the term "compromised" means that the sensitive ingredient is
   significantly damaged or killed. With respect to probiotics, compromised means that the
   probiotic is not viable. In one example, compromised means that more than 25% of the
30 probiotics are no longer viable, in another example more than 40% of the probitoics are
   no longer viable, in another example more than 50% of the probiotics are no longer
   viable, in another example more than 60% of the probiotics are no longer viable, in
   another example more than 75% of the probiotics are no longer viable, in another
   example more than 85% of the probiotics are no longer vialbe, and in another example
35 more than 95% of the probiotics are no longer viable.

                                                   4
 5         As used herein, the term "pet" means a domestic animal, also referred to herein as
   a companion animal, including, but not limited to, domestic dogs (canines), cats (felines),
   horses, cows, ferrets, rabbits, pigs, and the like.
           As used herein, the term "plurality" means more than one.
           As used herein, the term "portion" means a chemically or physically discrete
10 section within the entire composition. A portion does not include microscopic sections.
   In one example a portion is greater than 3% by weight of the composition, in another
   example greater than 5% by weight, in another example greater than 10% by weight, in
   another example greater than 15% by weight, in another example greater than 20% by
   weight, and in another example greater than 25% by weight.              In one example, the
15 composition comprises two portions and each portion is a layers.
           As used herein, the term "layer" means a portion covering a surface or forming an
   overlying part or segment.
           As used herein, the term "supplement"            means a form of an ingestible
   composition, such as a tablet, capsule, which can be gelatin, or the like, or other forms
20 such as biscuits, chews, edible films, gels, pills, or other treats, which are intended to be
   used not as entire meals but in addition to regularly consumed food meals, and typically,
   but not always, are meant to provide a health benefit above and beyond that of the
   regularly consumed food meals.
           As used herein, the term "substantially free of' means not intentionally adding
25 and typically means having less than an amount of a particular component such that one
   of ordinary skill in the art would not consider that amount to provide a health benefit. In
   one example substantially free means less than 0.0001%, alternatively less than 0.001%,
   alternatively less than 0.01%, alternatively less than 0.1%, alternatively less than 0.05%,
   alternatively less than 0.0 1%, all by weight of the composition.
30         As used herein, the term "sensitive ingredient" means an ingredient that is
   sensitive to humidity, oxygen or air, and/or heat.
           As used herein, the term "thick" or "thickness" means the distance from one
   surface to the opposite, in the solidified composition's smallest dimension.

                                                  5
 5         As used herein, the term "viable Probiotic microorganism" means a Probiotic
   microorganism in its live state, which by definition herein also includes, but is not limited
   to, those in the dormant state and spores but can also include non-spore formers.
           As used herein, the term "water activity" means the vapor pressure of water above
   a sample, such as a composition described herein, divided by that of pure water at the
10 same temperature and generally refers to the amount of free water available to participate
   in chemical reactions.    Water activity is often times represented by the mathematical
   equation a, = p/po, where p is the vapor pressure of water in the sample, and po is the
   vapor pressure of pure water at the same temperature.
           Water activity can be measured by using the AquaLab Series 4TE water activity
15 meter (available from Decagon Devices, Inc., Pullman, Washington). First, the water
   activity meter is turned on and allowed to warm-up for 30 minutes. Prior to running the
   test composition, a system check is performed by running three verification standards that
   are purchased in single use vials and are available from Decagon Devices Inc. The first
   verification standard is 8.57 M LiCl and aw = 0.500 ± 0.003 at 77 'F (25 C), the second
20 verification standard is 6.0 M NaCl and aw = 0.760 ± 0.003 at 77 'F (25 C), and the
   third verification standard is distilled water and aw = 1.000 ± 0.003 aw at 77 'F (25 C).
   For the standards, open vial and add the contents to a 15 ml disposable sample cup, which
   is available from Decagon Devices. If the reading is not within +/- 0.003 of what the
   standard measurement is, then the water activity meter needs to be cleaned and the
25 sample needs to be re-run. If the sample still does not fall within the +/- 0.003 of what
   the standard measurement is, then refer to the Decagon manual for troubleshooting and
   further cleaning instructions. Do not proceed with the water activity test for the test
   composition until the system check is complete. To test the test composition grind the
   test composition and place it in the sample cup. There needs to be enough ground test
30 composition to just cover the bottom of the sample cup. Place the test composition in the
   sample well and close the drawer, then turn the knob on the water activity meter and the
   analysis will begin.
           As used herein, the articles including "the", "a", and "an", when used in a claim
   or in the specification, are understood to mean one or more of what is claimed or
35 described.

                                                 6
 5         As used herein, the terms "include", "includes", and "including" are meant to be
   non-limiting.
           It should be understood that every maximum numerical limitation given
   throughout this specification includes every lower numerical limitation, as if such lower
   numerical limitations were expressly written herein.           Every minimum numerical
10 limitation given throughout this specification will include every higher numerical
   limitation, as if such higher numerical limitations were expressly written herein. Every
   numerical range given throughout this specification will include every narrower
   numerical range that falls within such broader numerical range, as if such narrower
   numerical ranges were all expressly written herein.
15         The composition and methods of the present invention can comprise, consist of,
   or consist essentially of, the essential elements and limitations of the invention described
   herein, as well as any additional or optional ingredients, components, or limitations
   described herein or otherwise useful in compositions intended for pet consumption.
           The sensitive ingredients useful herein may be categorized or described herein by
20 their health benefit and/or health conditions or their postulated mode of action or
   function. However, it is to be understood that the sensitive ingredients can, in some
   instances, provide more than one health benefit and/or health condition or function or
   operate via more than one mode of action. Therefore, classifications herein are made for
   the sake of convenience and are not intended to limit an ingredient to the particularly
25 stated function(s) or activities listed.
           In the description of the various embodiments of the present disclosure, various
   embodiments or individual features are disclosed. As will be apparent to the ordinarily
   skilled practitioner, all combinations of such embodiments and features are possible and
   can result in preferred executions of the present disclosure. While various embodiments
30 and individual features of the present invention have been illustrated and described,
   various other changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit
   and scope of the invention.          As will also be apparent, all combinations of the
   embodiments and features taught in the foregoing disclosure are possible and can result
   in preferred executions of the invention.

                                                  7
 5         FIG. 1 represents one example of composition 100. Composition 100 comprises a
   first portion 101 comprising the sensitive ingredient adjacent to a second portion 102
   comprising a fat, as indicated by the separate portions. The first portion 101 and the
   second portion 102 are discussed more fully hereafter. The first portion has a surface 104
   and the second portion has a surface 105. In the figure, the first portion 101 and the
10 second portion 102 form the composition 100. The first portion 101 can meet the second
   portion 102 at interface 103 such that the second portion 102 substantially covers the first
   portion 101 at the interface 103. As the figure depicts, each of the first portion 101 and
   the second portion 102 are at least partially exposed to the environment when removed
   from the mold; that is, with relation to the supplement as shown in its final form, each of
15 the first portion 101 and the second portion 102 is visible or visibly apparent such that
   each has a surface that is exposed or at least partially exposed. Thus, one portion is not
   completely surrounded by another portion such that the surrounded portion is not visible.
   Therefore, in one embodiment, first portion 101 and second portion 102 are each
   individually exposed and thus visible and discernible. However, in another example one
20 of the portions could completely surround the other portions, such as a filling. In one
   example, the first portion and the second portion are substantially non-mixed. In another
   example, the first portion and the second portion are adjacent to one another.
           An example of an enclosure is depicted in FIG. 2. In one example, the enclosure
   31 is part of a blister pack that contains multiple individual blister enclosures.
25         A cross-section of the enclosure of FIG. 2, along line 2A, is depicted in FIG. 2A.
   Enclosure 31, as shown, can be circular. Enclosure 31 can include lip 34. Lip 34 can end
   at surface 35. Surface 35 can extend outwards from the interior of the enclosure. Surface
   36 can extend inward from surface 35 towards the interior of the enclosure and surface 35
   and surface 36 form a forming a slight v-shape. Surface 36 can then extend downward
30 and lessen its angle with the vertical, forming body surface 37. Body surface 37 can form
   the main body of the supplement. Body surface 37 can then continue downward and end
   at bottom surface 38. Bottom surface 38 can form the top of the supplement and thus
   feature surface 39 can be used to include indicia and/or be made into a shape, such as a
   paw print, to the top of the supplement. Of course, feature surface 39 can be of any shape

                                                   8
 5 or size, as is described herein. In this configuration, the bottom surface 38 and the body
   surface 37 define an interior volume for the supplement.
            Fill line 40 can represent the height of a mixture or a finished supplement when
   filled or hardened in the enclosure 31.        Enclosure 31 contains composition 10 which
   comprises a first portion 1 comprising the sensitive ingredient adjacent to a second
10 portion 2 comprising a fat, as indicated by the separate portions. The first portion 1 has a
   surface 4 and the second portion 2 has a surface 5. The first portion 1 can meet the
   second portion 2 at interface 3 such that the second portion 2 substantially covers the first
   portion 1 at the interface 3.
            It can be advantageous for the finished supplement to fill the enclosure to fill line
15 40. In one example, the mixture that forms the supplement can be filled into enclosure
   31. Once filled, the mixture can harden while in the enclosure, and thus can take the
   shape of the enclosure. After the supplement has hardened, it does not always fit snugly
   in enclosure 31.      For instance, in some examples, the supplement can shrink when it
   hardens and when the packaging or supplement is disturbed the supplement can be jostled
20 from its original fit in enclosure 31. One problem with jostling the supplement, is that it
   could break.
            Surfaces 35 and 36 can together define a frill, which can help mitigate or prevent
   jostling of the supplement. In one example, the frill formed by surfaces 35 and 36 can
   form a v-shape and the fill line 40, which marks the top of the composition 10, is above
25 the transition point 41 between surfaces 35 and 36. The diameter of the transition point
   41 can be greater than the diameter of the fill line 40, thus surface 35 can act as a stopper
   to prevent the supplement from falling out of the enclosure 31. Such a feature can be
   extremely      advantageous     when    enclosures   are used   as both    a mold and        a
   holding/shipping/delivery vehicle. The frill has a draft angle with a maximum of angle of
30 50, which is large enough to prevent jostling but small enough to still allow the
   composition to be easily removed.          The fill line 40 can represent the height of the
   composition and surface 5. In one example, fill line 40 can be above transition point 41,
   in another example fill line 40 can be below transition point 41 and in another example
   fill line 40 is at transition point 41.

                                                    9
 5         Feature surface 39 can form a surface exterior to that of bottom surface 38. When
   enclosure 31 is an enclosure as part of a blister pack, feature surface 39 can serve many
   purposes. For example, when feature surface 39 forms a surface exterior to that of
   bottom surface 38, it can allow a consumer an easier way to push out the supplement out
   of the enclosure and through any seal that can be present.
10         In one example, the composition is a supplement.          In another example, the
   composition is not a tablet which means that the composition is not a fine powder
   material that is compacted into a tablet. In another example, the composition is not a
   capsule. And in another example, the composition is not a nutritionally balanced pet
   food.
15         The composition can comprise from 1% to 99%, by weight, of a first portion and
   from 1%to 99%, by weight, second portion. All ranges there between are envisioned. In
   another example, the composition can comprise from 50% to 99%, by weight, first
   portion and from 1%to 50%, by weight, second portion; in another example, from 45%
   to 90%, by weight, first portion and from 10% to 55%, by weight, second portion; in
20 another example, from 45% to 80%, by weight, first portion and from 20% to 55%, by
   weight, second portion; in another example, from 40% to 80%, by weight, first portion
   and from 20% to 60%, by weight, second portion; in another example, from 50% to 70%,
   by weight, first portion and from 30% to 50%, by weight, second portion; in another
   example, from 55% to 65%, by weight, first portion and from 35% to 45%, by weight,
25 second portion; and in another example, 75%, by weight, first portion and 25%, by
   weight, second portion.
           The composition can have a weight ratio of first portion to second portion from
   99:1 to 1:1, in another example from 50:1 to 3:2, in another example from 20:1 to 5:4; in
   another example from 15:1 to 2:1, in another example from 12:1 to 5:2, in another
30 example from 10:1 to 14:5, and in another example from 5:1 to 3:1. In one example the
   ratio of first portion to second portion is 3:1.
           In one example, the second portion does not completely surround the first portion.
   This can simplify manufacturing by allowing the composition to be formed while both
   the first portion and the second portion are liquid components.        In one example, the
35 composition is formed in a mold and the mold is first filled with the first portion and then

                                                  10
 5 the second portion, where the first portion and the second portion can both be liquid. In
   one example, the mold is the container that the individual compositions or multiple
   compositions are shipped and/or sold in.
            In one example the second portion covers from 10% to 100% of the surface of the
   first portion, in another example from 10% to 80% of the surface of the first portion, in
10 another example from 10% to 70% of the surface of the first portion, in another example
   from 10% to 60% of the surface of the first portion, in another example from 10% to 50%
   of the surface of the first portion, in another example from 10% to 40% of the surface of
   the first portion, in another example from 10% to 30% of the surface of the first portion,
   in another example from 10% to 25% of the surface of the first portion, and in another
15 example from 10% to 20% of the surface of the first portion.
            In one example the first portion is a shaped like a hemisphere and the flat side is
   partially or substantially covered by the second portion.      In another example the first
   portion is shaped like a prism (i.e. a triangular prism, a square prism, a pentagonal prism,
   a hexagonal prism, etc.) and one side is partially or substantially covered by the second
20 portion, in another example at least one side is partially or substantially covered by the
   second portion, in another example at least two sides are partially or substantially covered
   by the second portion, in another example at least three sides are partially or
   substantially covered by the second portion, and in another example at least four sides are
   partially or substantially covered by the second portion.
25          Compositionally the first and second portion can be different.
            The first portion can comprise a fat, a sweetener, a sensitive ingredient, and/or a
   colorant. In one example, the sensitive ingredient in the first portion can be a Probiotic.
   In one example, the fat is a cocoa butter component. In one example, the first portion can
   comprise a sensitive ingredient, a cocoa butter component, a sweetener component, and a
30 colorant.
            The first portion can comprise from 0.01% to 40%, by weight, fat. In another
   example, the first portion can comprise from 0.01% to 20%, by weight, fat component.
   In another example, the first portion can comprise from 0.01% to 10%, by weight, fat
   component. In another example, the first portion can comprise from 0.01% to 1%, by

                                                 11
 5 weight, fat component. In one example, the fat can be a high melting fat, such as those
   manufactured by ParamountTM and LodersTM, such as palm kernel oil.
            The first portion can comprise from 25% to 95%, by weight, sweetener, in another
   example from 30% to 85%, in another example from 35% to 65%, in another example,
   from 40% to 60%, by weight, sweetener, in another example from 40% to 50%, and in
10 another example from 42% to 48%. In one example, the sweetener can be a sweetener
   component and the sweetener component can be a creamy white coating, as described
   hereafter.
            In one example, the first portion can have a first melting point. In one example,
   the first melting point can be above 29.4'C (85 'F), in another example from 37.78 (100
15 'F) to 40.56'C (105 'F), in another example up to 48.89 'C (120 'F).              In another
   example, the first melting point can be at least 2.77 'C (5 'F) lower than the second
   melting point.
            In one example, the water activity of the first portion can be between 0.1 and 0.4,
   or between 0.2 and 0.31, or less than 0.3.           In one example, no water has been
20 intentionally added to the first portion.
            The second portion can comprise a fat, a sweetener, a processing aid, a sensitive
   ingredient, and/or a colorant. In one example, the second portion is substantially free of a
   sensitive ingredient.    In another example, the second portion is substantially free of a
   Probiotic.    In one example, the second portion can consist of a fat, a sweetener, a
25 processing aid, and a colorant.
            The second portion can comprise from 10% to 50%, by weight, fat, in another
   example from 20% to 50%, by weight, fat, in another example, from 30% to 40%, by
   weight, fat. In another example, the second portion can comprise 35%, by weight, fat. In
   one example, the fat can be partially hydrogenated vegetable oil, which can include
30 cotton seed oil, soybean oil, palm kernel oil, and combinations thereof. In one example,
   the fat can comprise hydrogenated palm oil. In one example, the second portion can
   comprise one hydrogenated fat and one non-hydrogenated fat. In one example, the non
   hydrogenated fat is tallow.     In another example, the fat can be partially hydrogenated
   palm kernel oil.     In one example, the fat can be a K.L.X.TM        high melting point fat
35 (available from Loders Croklaan, Wormerveer, The Netherlands) with a melting point of

                                                12
 5 52.78 -C (127 'F).     In another example, the fat can be Paramount B (available from
   Loders Croklaan, Wormerveer, The Netherlands) with a melting point of 36.11 'C (97
   'F).   And in another example the vegetable oil can be Freedom 905 (available from
   Loders Croklaan, Wormerveer, The Netherlands) with a melting point of 35 'C (95 'F).
   In another example, the fat can be 27 Stearine (available from Loders Croklaan,
10 Wormerveer, The Netherlands) with a melting point of 60 'C (140 'F).
           The second portion can comprise from 20% to 99%, by weight, sweetener
   component. In another example, the second portion can comprise from 20% to 90%, by
   weight, sweetener. In another example, the second portion can comprise from 30% to
   80%, by weight, sweetener. In another example, the second portion can comprise from
15 50% to 70%, by weight, sweetener. In another example, the second portion can comprise
   from 60% to 70%, by weight, sweetener.          Non-limiting examples of sweeteners can
   include polyols such as glycerol, sorbitol (E420), and xylitol maltitol (E965), polymeric
   polyols like polydextrose (E1200), or natural extracts like quillaia (E999), lactic acid, or
   urea. In one example, the sweetener is 6x refined sugar. 6x refined sugar can be used to
20 impart superior mouth-feel and the palatability of the composition as well as improving
   the flowability of the mixture during processing.
           The second portion can comprise from 0% to 5%, by weight, processing aid. In
   another example, the second portion can comprise from 0% to 4%, by weight, processing
   aid. In another example, the second portion can comprise from 0% to 2%, by weight,
25 processing aid.   In another example, the second portion can comprise 1%, by weight,
   processing aid. In one example, the processing aid can be lecithin.
           The second portion can further comprise a humectant. A humectant can be used
   to draw moisture away from the first portion, where the sensitive ingredient can be
   located, and bind the moisture so that it assists in keeping moisture away from the
30 sensitive ingredient. Non-limiting examples of humectants can include propylene glycol
   (E1520), glyceryl triacetate    (E1518), vinyl alcohol, neoagarobiose, glycerin, and
   combinations thereof.
           In one example, the second portion can have a second melting point. In one
   example the second melting point can be from 51.67 'C (125 'F) to 54.44 'C (130 'F), in
35 another example at least 43.33 'C (110 'F), in another example at least 46.11 'C (115

                                                 13
 5 'F), in another example at least 48.89 'C (120 'F).       In another example, the second
   melting point can be at least 1.66 'C (3 'F) different than the first melting point; in
   another example at least 2.77 'C (5 'F) different; in another example at least 4.44 'C (8
   'F) different; in another example at least 5.56 'C (10 'F) different; in another example at
   least 6.67 'C (12 'F); and in another example at least 8.33 'C (15 'F) different.
10 Accordingly, in one example, the second portion can provide rigidity to the supplement
   since the second melting point is greater than the first melting piont. In one example, the
   melting point of the second portion can be greater than the melting point of the first
   portion. Melting point is measured according to AOCS Official Method Cc 1-25 entitled
   Melting Point Capillary Tube Method.
15         In one example, the second portion can be from 1 millimeter (mm) to 1 centimeter
   (cm) thick, in another example from 2 mm to 6 mm thick, in another example from 3 mm
   to 5 mm thick, and in another example from 2 mm to 4 mm thick.
           The first portion and/or the second portion of the composition can comprise a
   colorant. In one example, the first portion and the second portion can be approximately
20 the same color. In another example, the first portion and the second portion can be
   different colors.   Alternatively, the first portion and the second portion can comprise
   more than one color. Non-limiting examples of colorants can include titanium dioxide,
   which can be used for a white color, stearine, which can be used for a white color,
   caramel, which can be used for brown, all natural colorants, and specific examples such
25 as CSL 37542 Brown Dispersion OB, available from Sensient Colors of St. Louis, MO.
           In one example, each portion can comprise from 0.1% to 5%, by weight, colorant;
   in another example from 0.25% to 4%; and in another example, from 0.5% to 2%. In one
   example, the colorant can be a caramel colorant, a paprika colorant, or combinations
   thereof. In one example, the colorant can be aqueous based or non-aqueous based. In
30 another example, the non-aqueous based colorant can be a fat based colorant, including
   natural or non-natural colorants.     Non-aqueous fat based colorants can allow proper
   mixing to occur such that the color of the supplement and the portions of the supplement
   can be more uniform. It has been found that when using certain types of colorants, the
   color will not be uniform, which results in a layering or gradation of colors, rather than a
35 smooth, uniform color.

                                                  14
 5          The composition can contain one or more sensitive ingredients.         The sensitive
    ingredient can be in the first portion, the second portion, or both the first portion and the
    second portion. In one example, the second portion is substantially free of a sensitive
    ingredient.   In another example, the first portion comprises Probiotics.          In another
    example, the second portion can be substantially free of Probiotics. In another example,
10  the first portion comprises a sensitive ingredient and the second portion comprises a
    different sensitive ingredient. In one example, the composition can comprise more than
    one sensitive ingredient. In another example, a sensitive ingredient can be applied to the
    composition as a coating.
            The compositions may comprise at least 0.1%, alternatively at least 0.5%, and
15  alternatively at least 1% of the sensitive ingredient, by weight of the composition.       As
    further examples, the compositions may comprise 99% or less, alternatively 75% or less,
    alternatively 50% or less, alternatively 25% or less, alternatively 10% or less, and
    alternatively 5% or less of the sensitive ingredient, by weight of the composition.
            Non-limiting examples of sensitive ingredients can include Probiotics, vitamin
20  ingredients, polyphenol ingredients, amino acid ingredients, carotenoid ingredients,
    antioxidant ingredients, fatty acid ingredients, glucose mimetic ingredients, chondro
    protective agents, other sensitive ingredients, and combinations thereof.
            In one example, the sensitive ingredient can be a Probiotic component.            The
    Probiotic   component     may comprise      one or more yeast or bacterial           Probiotic
25  microorganisms suitable for pet consumption and effective for maintaining or improving
    the microbial balance in the pet gastrointestinal tract or for another benefit, such as
    disease or condition relief or prophylaxis, to the pet.
            In an example, strains of Bifidobacteria isolated from resected and washed canine
    or feline    gastrointestinal  tract  can be     used.    Accordingly,    various    Probiotic
30  microorganisms known in the art can be suitable for use in the present invention. See, for
    example, WO 03/075676, and U.S. Published Application No. US 2006/0228448A1.                In
    other examples, the Probiotic can be selected from bacteria, yeast or microorganism of
    the genera Bacillus, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Enterococcus (e.g., Enterococcus
   faecium    DSM 10663 and Enterococcus faecium SF68), Lactobacillus, Leuconostroc,
35  Saccharomyces, Candida, Streptococcus, and combinations thereof. In another example,

                                                  15
 5 the Probiotic can be selected from the genera Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus, and
   combinations and mixtures thereof.
           In one example, the Probiotic can form a spore, such as those from the genera
   Bacillus. In another example, the Probiotic does not form a spore. In another example,
   the Probiotic can be freeze-dried or lyophilized. Non-limiting examples of lactic acid
10 bacteria suitable for use herein include strains of Streptococcus lactis, Streptococcus
   cremoris, Streptococcus diacetylactis, Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus
   bulgaricus, Lactobacillus acidophilus (e.g., Lactobacillus acidophilus strain DSM
   13241),    Lactobacillus helveticus,       Lactobacillus bifidus,        Lactobacillus casei,
   Lactobacillus lactis, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus
15 delbrukii, Lactobacillus thermophilus, Lactobacillusfermentii, Lactobacillus salvarius,
   Lactobacillus reuteri, Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium infantis, Bifidobacterium
   bifidum, Bifidobacterium animalis, Bifidobacterium pseudolongum, Pediococcus
   cerevisiae, and combinations and mixtures of any thereof.            In another example, the
   Probiotic can comprise the bacterial strain Bifidobacterium animalis AHC7 NCIMB
20 41199.     Other examples of the Probiotic can include one or more microorganisms
   identified   in   U.S.     Published   Application     Nos.    US      2005/0152884A1,      US
   2005/0158294A1, US 2005/0158293A1, US 2005/0175598A1, US 2006/0269634A1, US
   2006/0270020A1, and PCT International Publication No. WO 2005/060707A2.
           In one example, the compositions of the present invention can have a viable
25 Probiotic microorganism count of at least 105 colony forming units per gram (CFU/g) of
   composition, or at least 106 CFU/g of composition, or at least 108 CFU/g of composition,
   or at least 109 CFU/g of composition. In another example, the composition may have a
   viable Probiotic microorganism count of up to 101 CFU/g of composition, up to 1012
   CFU/g of composition, or up to 1010 CFU/g of composition, or up to 109 CFU/g of
30 composition. CFU is determined using the method provided as part of the European
   Pharmacopoeial Methods, 2003, Section 2.6.12.
           Advantageously, the composition, containing a Probiotic sensitive ingredient, can
   have a shelf life of at least three months, alternatively at least six months, alternatively at
   least 12 months, alternatively at least 18 months, alternatively at least 24 months,
35 alternatively from three months to 24 months, alternatively from six months to 18

                                                 16
 5 months. As used herein, the term "shelf life" refers to that property of the composition
   whereby 1% or more, alternatively 5% or more, alternatively 10% or more, alternatively
   25% or more, alternatively 50% or more, alternatively 75% or more, of the Probiotic
   microorganisms of the composition are live viable and active at the referenced time
   period after exposure to the shelf life conditions for a specified period of time. Shelf life
10 conditions are ambient conditions at 22 'C (71.6 F) with 35% relative humidity.
           Non-limiting examples of vitamin ingredients can include choline chloride,
   vitamin E (tocopherols), ascorbic acid, vitamin A acetate, calcium pantothenate,
   pantothenic acid, biotin, thiamine mononitrate (source of vitamin B1), vitamin B12
   supplement, niacin, riboflavin supplement (source of vitamin B2), inositol, pyridoxine
15 hydrochloride (source of vitamin B6), vitamin D3 supplement, folic acid, vitamin C,
   ascorbic acid, and combinations thereof.
           Non-limiting examples of polyphenols ingredients can include tea extract,
   rosemary extract, rosemarinic acid, coffee extract, caffeic acid, turmeric extract,
   blueberry extract, grape extract, grapeseed extract, and/or soy extract.
20         Non-limiting examples of amino acid ingredients can include 1-Tryptophan,
   Taurine, Histidine, Carnosine, Alanine, Cysteine, Arginine, Methionine, Tryptophan,
   Lysine, Asparagine, Aspartic       acid, Phenylalanine, Valine, Threonine, Isoleucine,
   Histidine, Leucine, Glycine, Glutamine, Taurine, Tyrosine, Homocysteine, Ornithine,
   Citruline, Glutamic acid, Proline, peptides, Serine, and combinations thereof.
25         Non-limiting examples of carotenoid ingredients can include lutein, astaxanthin,
   zeaxanthin, bixin, lycopene, beta-carotene, and combinations thereof.
           Non-limiting examples of antioxidant ingredients can include selenium, CoQ10
   (Co-enzyme Q10), mixed tocopherols, and combinations thereof.
           Non-limiting examples of fatty acid ingredients can include arachidonic acid,
30 alpha-linoleic acid, gamma linolenic acid, linoleic acid, eicosapentanoic acid (EPA),
   docosahexanoic acid (DHA), fish oils as a source of EPA and/or DHA, and combinations
   thereof.
           In one example, the composition can comprise a mixture of omega-3-fatty acids
   and omega-6-fatty acids, often through utilization of various materials containing these

                                                 17
 5 components.     Certain compositions for use herein may be enriched in one or more
   specific omega-3-fatty acids or omega-6-fatty acids.
           Non-limiting examples of glucose mimetic ingredients can include glucose anti
   metabolites    including    2-deoxy-D-glucose,      5-thio-D-glucose,    3-0-methylglucose,
   anhydrosugars     including   1,5-anhydro-D-glucitol,    2,5-anhydro-D-glucitol,    and 2,5
10 anhydro-D-mannitol, mannoheptulose, avocado extract comprising mannoheptulose, and
   combinations thereof.
           In one example, mannoheptulose can be present at 0.1% to 10%, by weight of the
   supplement.    In another example, mannoheptulose can be present at 0.1% to 5%, by
   weight of the supplement. In other examples, mannoheptulose can be present at 0.1% to
15 4%, by weight of the supplement. In other example, mannoheptulose can be present at
   0.1% to 3%, by weight of the supplement. In another example, mannoheptulose can be
   present at 1% to 5%, by weight of the supplement. In another example, mannoheptulose
   can be present at 1% to 4%, by weight of the supplement.                   In one example,
   mannoheputlose can be present at 2%, by weight of the supplement.
20         Non-limiting    examples    of  chondro-protective     agents  can    include   MSM
   (methylsulfonylmethane),      glucosamine    hydrochloride,    chondroitin   sulfate,  Perna
   canaliculus,and combinations thereof.
           Suitable other sensitive ingredients can include biologics, for example, but not
   limited to, biologics selected from the group consisting of enzymes, antibodies,
25 immunoglobulins, cytokines, epigenetic agents, and mixtures and combinations of these.
           The compositions herein can comprise a sweetener. The sweetener can comprise
   a monosaccharide, disaccharide, or any mixture thereof.         The first portion and/or the
   second portion can comprise a sweetener component and/or mixtures of sweetener
   components.
30         In one example, the compositions herein comprise a monosaccharide.               The
   monosaccharide utilized herein is of the general formula CnH 2nOn, wherein n is an integer
   equal to or greater than 3. Non-limiting examples of monosaccharides that may be used
   include sorbitol, mannitol, erythrose, threose, ribose, arabinose, xylose, ribulose, glucose,
   galactose, mannose, fructose, sorbose, and any mixture thereof.         In one example, the

                                                 18
 5 monosaccharide may include sorbitol, mannitol, glucose, mannose, fructose, or any
   mixture thereof. In another example, the monosaccharide is sorbitol.
           In one example, the compositions herein comprise a disaccharide.                  The
   disaccharide utilized herein is of the general formula CnH 2n-2 On 1 , wherein the
   disaccharide has 2 monosaccharide units connected via a glycosidic bond.              In such
10 formula, n is an integer equal to or greater than 3.            Non-limiting examples of
   disaccharides that may be utilized herein include sucrose, maltose, lactitol, maltitol,
   maltulose, lactose, and any mixture thereof. In another example, the monosaccharide is
   sucrose.
           In one example, which may be particularly advantageous if the sensitive
15 ingredient is a Probiotic, the sweetener component can comprise a monosaccharide or
   disaccharide that has a melting point of from 82.22 'C (180 'F) to 137.78 'C (280 'F), or
   from 93.33 'C (200 'F) to 121.11 'C (250 'F).             Non-limiting examples include
   monosaccharides, such as sorbitol or xylitol.
           The composition can comprise a sweetener component.                  The sweetener
20 components can be a source of sweeteners as well as other components. An example of a
   sweetener component is white creamy coating which is commercially available from the
   Blommer Chocolate Company of Chicago, IL, and is commercially known as Blommer
   Creamy White Coating.            The Blommer Creamy White Coating comprises                 a
   confectioner's white coating made from a blend of sugar, vegetable oils, nonfat milk
25 powder, lecithin, and artificial color and flavor. More specifically, the Blommer Creamy
   White Coating comprises sugar, partially hydrogenated palm kernel oil, nonfat milk
   powder, soy lecithin added as an emulsifier, monoglycerides, artificial color in the form
   of titanium dioxide, and artificial flavor.      The Blommer Creamy White Coating is
   generally a complete crystalline solid at 4.44 'C (40 'F) and begins crystallizing at 17.78
30 'C (64 'F). It begins melting at 22.78 'C (73 'F) and is in complete liquid phase at 40 'C
   (104 'F).  Other similar creamy white coatings are available from other manufacturers
   other than Blommer and can be used as well.
           The compositions can comprise a fat. Sources of fat are widely known, and as
   used herein are interpreted to include (as examples) wax, fat, fatty acid, and/or lipid.

                                                  19
 5         Specific examples of wax, fat, fatty acid, or lipid may often be interchangeable in
   accordance with nomenclature common in the art; for example, a lipid may often also be
   characterized as a fat. The inventors herein do not intend to be limited by any particular
   designation of nomenclature, and classifications of a particular material as a wax, fat,
   fatty acid, lipid, or the like is made for purposes of convenience only.
10        Non-limiting examples of fat can include cocoa butter, palm kernel oil, palm oil,
   cottonseed oil, soybean oil, canola oil, rapeseed oil, peanut oil, butter oil, hydrogenated
   and partially hydrogenated derivatives of oils and fats (including those listed herein),
   wax, paraffin, paraffin wax, paraffin oil, liquid paraffin, solid paraffin, candelilla wax,
   carnauba wax, microcrystalline wax, beeswax, long chain fatty acids and esters thereof,
15 capric acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, lauric acid, behenic acid,
   adipic acid, acetyl acyl glycerols, acetylated monoglyceride, dewaxed gumlac, triolein,
   chocolate, chocolate liquor, sweet milk chocolate, cocoa solids, methylcellulose,
   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,        glycerol monostearate, polyethylene glycol, stearyl
   alcohol, cetyl alcohol, behenyl alcohol, olestra, tristearin, animal fat, poultry fat, and
20 combinations thereof.
          In other examples, the fat can include one or more partially hydrogenated plant oils
   or plant oils high in saturated fats (i.e., plant oil that is substantially solid at room
   temperature). Additionally, it has been found that partially hydrogenated plant oil, such
   as soybean oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, cocoa butter, palm kernel oil, palm oil, canola oil,
25 rapeseed oil, peanut oil, butter oil, and the like (including oil mixtures), may reduce
   transmission of water, oxygen or degradation processes, such as oxidation or other
   processes that compromise the sensitive ingredients.
          Suitable examples of higher melting point temperature components, such as high
   melting point fats, which can be used as ingredients include, but are not limited to, waxes
30 such as, but not limited to, candelilla wax, carnauba wax, microcrystalline wax, and bees
   wax; fatty acids and esters thereof such as, but not limited to, capric acid, lauric acid,
   myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, and behenic acid; hydrogenated oils
   and fats, such as, but not limited to, hydrogenated soybean oil, hydrogenated cottonseed
   oil, hydrogenated palm oil, hydrogenated peanut oil, hydrogenated rapeseed oil,
35 hydrogenated corn oil, hydrogenated poultry fat, hydrogenated tallow, hydrogenated lard,

                                                 20
 5 and hydrogenated fish oil; partial glycerides of hydrogenated fats and oils, such as, but
   not limited to all those listed herein; fatty alcohols, such as, but not limited to, cetyl
   alcohol, stearyl alcohol, and behenyl alcohol; and combinations of any thereof. In certain
   embodiments, the fat component can have a melting point ranging from 23.89 'C (75 'F)
   to 71.1 'C (160 'F), or in certain embodiments ranging from 43.33 'C (110 'F) to 71.11
10 -C (160 -F).
           The fat can comprise a cocoa butter component.        As defined herein the cocoa
   butter component comprises one or more of cocoa butter, a cocoa butter extender, a cocoa
   butter replacer, or a cocoa butter substitute. A given fat may be classified as one of a
   cocoa butter extender, cocoa butter replacer, or cocoa butter substitute, or sometimes may
15 be classified as two or more of a cocoa butter extender, cocoa butter replacer, and cocoa
   butter substitute. Where used, each of the cocoa butter extender, cocoa butter replacer,
   and cocoa butter substitute may be one particular fat within the referenced class or any
   mixtures of such fats.
           Cocoa butter is commonly known in the art and may generally refer to the fat
20 from cocoa beans used to prepare chocolate. Cocoa beans are obtainable from the pods
   of cocoa trees (e.g., Theobroma cocoa). Cocoa butter is commercially available from the
   Blommer Chocolate Company of Chicago, IL. An example of a cocoa butter available
   from Blommer comprises their standard cocoa butter. This cocoa butter can be a prime
   pressed cocoa butter that has been mechanically pressed from properly roasted,
25 winnowed, and milled blended chocolate liquor. Subsequent to pressing, the cocoa butter
   can be centrifuged to remove any remaining solids. The cocoa butter flavor can then be
   free from any off odors or off notes. The melting point can be around 29.44 'C (85 'F) to
   35 'C (95 'F).     Furthermore, the water activity of the cocoa butter can be below the
   required water activity levels to support the growth of microorganisms.
30         The cocoa butter component may additionally or alternatively comprise a cocoa
   butter extender. These extenders are also commonly known in the art, and may generally
   refer to other fats having solid fat index (SFI) profiles which are similar to cocoa butter.
   Cocoa butter extenders may comprise fat containing            C16 or C18 fatty acids, or
   combinations thereof.      Palm oil, shea oil, illipe butter, mango butter, sal butter,

                                                 21
 5 cottonseed oil, and soybean oil, including fractionated and/or partially hydrogenated
   forms, are non-limiting examples of cocoa butter extenders.
            The cocoa butter component may additionally or alternatively comprise a cocoa
   butter replacer.   These replacers will also be commonly known in the art, and may
   generally refer to fats having melting or other properties, or structures, similar to those of
10 cocoa butter, which are based on non-lauric fats (e.g., C16 or C18 ).         These include
   vegetable oils such as palm oil, cottonseed oil, soybean oil, and rapeseed oil, including
   fractions and/or partially hydrogenated forms thereof.        One example is ASTRAL@
   (partially hydrogenated vegetable oil (soybean oil and cottonseed oil), commercially
   available from Humko Oil Products, Cordova, TN).
15          The cocoa butter component may additionally or alternatively comprise a cocoa
   butter substitute. These substitutes will also be commonly known in the art, and may
   generally refer to hard fats having melting or other properties, or structures, similar to
   those of cocoa butter, but which are based on lauric fats (C12 ).         Such cocoa butter
   substitutes may tend to have melting points higher than that of cocoa butter, making these
20 substitutes interesting for imparting heat resistance to compositions.        These include
   vegetable oils such as palm kernel oil and coconut oil, including fractions and/or partially
   hydrogenated forms thereof.
            In one embodiment, the cocoa butter component comprises at least one lipid
   selected from the group consisting of soybean oil, cottonseed oil, coconut oil, rapeseed
25 oil, palm kernel oil, fractions of the foregoing, and partially hydrogenated forms of the
   foregoing.
            Alternatively or additionally, the fat may comprise an animal-derived fat
   component. As will be commonly known in the art, the animal-derived fat component
   comprises a fat derived from an animal. Non-limiting examples include beef, poultry,
30 pork, and lamb (e.g., lards and tallows).     Dairy fats may also be examples, including
   milkfat, fractionated milkfat, and butterfat.
            In one example, the fat may comprise a combination of a cocoa butter component
   and an animal-derived fat component at a ratio of from 5:95 to 95:5, or from 5:95 to
   25:75, or from 5:95 to 50:50, all by weight.       In another embodiment herein, the fat

                                               22
 5 comprises the cocoa butter component and the animal-derived fat component at a ratio of
   from 20:80 to 45:55, or from 25:75 to 40:60, all by weight.
           The present composition     may optionally comprise one or more optional
   components. The optional component can be in the first portion, the second portion, or
   both the first and second portions.    The optional components can also be a coating
10 applied to the composition, the first portion, or the second portion.       Non-limiting
   examples of optional components can include crude protein, shellac, chitin, chitosan,
   alginate, dairy by-products, and combinations thereof.
           In one embodiment, the compositions may comprise, on a dry matter basis, from
   0.1% to 30% crude protein, or from 1% to 20% crude protein, by weight of the
15 composition.    The crude protein material may comprise any material having a protein
   content of at least 15% by weight, non-limiting examples of which include vegetable
   proteins such as soybean, cottonseed, and peanut, animal proteins such as casein,
   albumin, chicken, beef, pork, lamb, turkey, poultry meat tissue, and combinations
   thereof. Non-limiting examples of meat tissue useful herein include fresh meat, and dried
20 or rendered meals such as fish meal, poultry meal, meat meal, bone meal, and the like.
   Other types of suitable crude protein sources include wheat gluten or corn gluten, and
   proteins extracted from microbial sources such as yeast.
           The compositions can comprise dairy by-products such as dried whey.
25 Processing
           The compositions of the present invention can be made by any suitable method.
   In one example, the compositions are not extruded.
           One example of a process for making the composition in accordance with the
   compositions disclosed above is described hereinafter.
30         The first portion can be made as follows. Cocoa butter can be heated to 54.44 'C
   (130 'F) for at least eight hours, or even longer.     Heating the cocoa butter can help
   remove residual water that can compromise the sensitive ingredient. After heating, the
   cocoa butter will be melted. Then, the cocoa butter can be cooled to 43.33 'C (110 'F).
   This cooling step can reduce compromising the sensitive ingredient when it is added to
35 the cocoa butter. The sensitive ingredient, which can be a Probiotic, is added and the

                                                 23
 5 composition is mixed. In one example, the composition is mixed using a static mixer.
   Once the mixture is mostly, if not completely, homogeneous and the sensitive ingredient
   is saturated or fully coated with the cocoa butter, the sweetener, which can be a sweetener
   component such as creamy white coating, can be added. The sweetener can be held at
   40.56 'C (105 'F) for around 24 hours or more prior to mixing it with the cocoa butter
10 and sensitive ingredient mixture. This mixing can be maintained at around 37.78 'C (100
   'F) to 40.56 'C (105 'F).      Then, color can optionally be added, and the mixture can be
   mixed until it is homogenous.
            The second portion can be made as follows. Sugar, such as 6X sugar, is put in a
   bowl of a mixer, such as a Hobart mixer. The bowl and the paddle can be pre-warmed so
15 they are both greater than 37.78 'C (100 'F).     A separate mixture is made with a higher
   melting point fat, such as K.L.X. TM , which is heated to above 57.22 'C (135 'F), and
   lecithin. Lecithin is not always used but can be a processing aid that makes the mixture
   flow better. The fat and lecithin mixture is then added to the sugar and mixed at the
   lowest speed until there are no clumps, which generally takes 5 to 10 minutes. Then
20 color can optionally be added to the mixture. The fat, lecithin, sugar, color mixture is
   mixed thoroughly at the lowest speed until it is smooth.            The mixture should be
   continuously stirred slowly to ensure that the mixture is uniform until it is added to the
   first portion to form the composition.
            The first portion can be added to a blister package, as described in more detail
25 hereafter. The blister package can have one or more enclosures which can serve as molds
   for the mixtures. In one example, approximately 1.5 grams of the first portion is added to
   each enclosure. At this point the first portion can be approximately 37.78 'C (100 'F).
            Then, the first portion can be cooled. This first cooling step is optional. The first
   cooling step can be advantageous by producing a smoother composition. Any method of
30 cooling can be used. In one example, the cooling process can occur through a cooling
   tunnel that is around 15.56 'C (60 'F). The composition can be in the cooling tunnel for
   seven to twelve minutes. Of course, cooling can be completed at other temperatures and
   times, and such temperatures and times are dependent on one another.            For example,
   cooling can be done at around 10 'C (50 'F), or even below 10 'C (50 'F), for around

                                                 24
 5 five to ten minutes. During cooling, the mixture will harden and crystallize while in the
   enclosure mold to form a solid first portion.
            Next, the second portion can be added to the first portion. In one example, 0.5
   grams of the second portion is added on top of the first portion. The entire composition is
   then cooled by any method, including the cooling tunnel as described above.           At this
10 point, a blister pack with enclosures filled with compositions has been manufactured. In
   one example, the compositions are pet food supplements. Once sealed, the blister pack
   can then be inserted into a secondary container or package, the configuration of which is
   described hereinafter in more detail.
            The above processing allows consistent and controllable dosing through the
15 supplement.     By sufficient and homogenous mixing of the multiple components, a
   controllable amount of a sensitive ingredient can be provided in a single supplement and
   results in an end product that can provide a predictable unit dose of a sensitive ingredient.
   Packaging
20          The compositions of the present invention can be packaged and sealed in any
   suitable packaging. The packaging can help protect the compositions and the sensitive
   ingredients from excessive heat and moisture.        Additionally, in some examples it is
   important that the packaging does not absorb fat from the compositions. In one example,
   the sensitive ingredient can have heat sensitization properties.      Those properties can
25 result in requiring packaging that has the ability to be cold shipped, such as at
   temperatures less than 23.89 'C (75 'F).    These factors can be important in determining
   the types of components used in the packaging of the compositions of the present
   invention.
            In one example, the packaging can comprise a primary container, the primary
30 container can have at least one enclosure, the enclosure can contain at least one dosage
   unit or supplement, and the dosage unit or supplement can comprise a sensitive
   ingredient. In one example, the sensitive ingredient is a Probiotic. The primary container
   can be a blister pack as would be understood and commonly used in the art. The primary
   container can be of varying shape and size based upon the number, size, and type of
35 supplement contained therein and can be sized to be conveniently portable. Non-limiting

                                                25
 5 examples of such shapes include round, oval, rectangular, square, triangular, trapezoidal,
   hexagonal, octagonal, paw print, and combinations thereof as disclosed for example, in
   D605,527, D651,524, D631,757, D640,564, and D651,095. The shapes can include other
   indicia, such as words, numbers images, images of species, age of the intended user of
   the product, brand names, trade dress features, and the like. The primary container can
10 also be formed to have means to permit separation of one or more portions of the primary
   container, i.e. one or more portions containing an enclosure. As would be understood by
   those of skill in the art, non-limiting examples of such means include perforations,
   scoring and combinations thereof.
           As would be understood by those skilled in the packaging arts, to include
15 structure and making of packaging, a blister pack can include one or more blister layers
   and a rupturable layer, the combination of which encloses one or more supplements.
   Thus, the blister layer can provide enclosures, in any suitable size and/or shape, for one
   or more supplements of any suitable size, shape, or form. The supplement can take the
   shape of the enclosure and the enclosure can be a mold for the composition.
20         The rupturable layer permits the supplement to be removed from the blister pack.
   The rupturable layer can be formed over all or a portion of the blister layer. Such blister
   packs can also comprise a backing layer that can be disposed on or over the rupturable
   layer to prevent unintended rupture and release of dosage units. Such backing layer can
   be peeled away to expose the rupturable layer when release of a supplement is desired.
25 Such backing layer can be formed over all or a portion of the rupturable layer. Such a
   backing layer can be affixed to the rupturable layer and/or the blister layer via, for
   example, adhesive.
           Blister layers can be made from a variety of suitable materials, non-limiting
   examples of which include polyvinyl chloride, thermoplastic materials, polyolefins, and
30 combinations thereof. The blister layer can be opaque, partially opaque, or transparent,
   and can be colorless or colored.
           Rupturable layers can be made from a variety of suitable materials, non-limiting
   examples of which include metal foil, tempered metal foil, paperboard, polyvinyl
   chloride, polyolefins, polystyrenes, polyesters, fluoropolymer resins, and combinations
35 thereof. The rupturable layer can also be formed as a laminate composed of a plurality of

                                                26
 5 laminated layers of different materials, so long as its basic operation and rupturability is
   not affected. The rupturable layer can be of any desired color.
           Backing layers can be made from a variety of suitable materials, non-limiting
   examples of which include paper, plastic, polyvinyl chloride, and combinations thereof.
   The backing layer can be of any desired color.
10         In one example, the first portion and/or the second portion is a liquid when it is
   placed into the enclosure.    The liquid composition can solidify in the enclosure, thus
   taking the shape of the enclosure. In certain examples, the composition may be smaller
   than the enclosure. It may be necessary to have a mechanical structure, such as a frill, to
   prevent the composition from jostling around and getting damaged. The frill could also
15 help remove the supplement without deforming it.
           The packaging for the pet food composition can also optionally include a
   secondary container. A secondary container can contain one or more separate, discrete
   primary containers and/or can be formed as an integrated structure with the primary
   container. The secondary container can be of varying shape, size and form as desired
20 based upon the number, size and type of primary containers contained therein and/or
   formed as a part thereof, and can be sized to be conveniently portable. Non-limiting
   examples of such shapes and forms include round, oval, rectangular, square, triangular,
   trapezoidal, octagonal, foldable and combinations thereof.      Non-limiting examples of
   secondary containers can include boxes and cartons. Non-limiting examples of integrated
25 primary and secondary containers include tri-fold structures in which a primary container
   is affixed to a secondary container that folds over one or more portions of the primary
   container; and structures shaped and structured similarly to a book in which one or more
   primary structures form page-like structures bound within a secondary container outer
   covering forming an integrated structure. The primary and secondary containers can also
30 be separate, discrete elements, and one or more primary containers can be removed from
   the secondary container.     The secondary container can be made from a variety of
   materials, non-limiting examples of which include paper, paperboard, cardboard, plastic,
   and combinations thereof.
           Additional packaging options are envisioned. Some of those packaging options
35 are disclosed, for example, in United States Publication No. 2010/0003368.

                                                  27
 5
   Example 1
            Pet supplements were made according to the processing method as described
   herein.    Each supplement contained approximately between 109 and 1010 CFU of
   Probiotic microorganism and weighed approximately 2.6 grams. The supplements were
10 made in a 5000 grams batch process.               Approximately    500 grams of Probiotic
   microorganisms were mixed with about 170 grams of cocoa butter. This mixture was
   added to about 1000 grams of Blommer creamy white coating, which was then mixed
   with about 3330 grams of additional Blommer creamy white coating, forming the final
   mixture. This final mixture was deposited in the enclosures of the blister package. Then,
15 the second portion was added. The second-second portion included about 325 grams of
   K.L.X.TM fat, about 500 grams of 6x sugar, and 3.0 grams of natural caramel color. The
   first-second portion was liquid and was added on top of the final mixture that was
   deposited in the enclosures. The second-second portion was liquid and was added on top
   of the first-second portion. The supplements were placed in a cooling area to solidify.
20 The cooling time and temperature can vary. For instance, the supplements can be cooled
   for about 10 minutes at about 45 'F or about 30 minutes at about 70 'F.
            The dimensions and values disclosed herein are not to be understood as being
   strictly limited to the exact numerical values recited. Instead, unless otherwise specified,
   each such dimension is intended to mean both the recited value and a functionally
25 equivalent range surrounding that value.        For example, a dimension disclosed as "40
   mm" is intended to mean "about 40 mm."
            All documents cited in the Detailed Description of the Invention are, in relevant
   part, incorporated herein by reference; the citation of any document is not to be construed
   as an admission that it is prior art with respect to the present invention. To the extent that
30 any meaning or definition of a term in this document conflicts with any meaning or
   definition of the same term in a document incorporated by reference, the meaning or
   definition assigned to that term in this document shall govern.
            While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and
   described, it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that various other changes and
35 modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                               28
5 It is therefore intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and
  modifications that are within the scope of this invention.

                                              29
                                          CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
  1. A composition comprising:
            a. from 45% to 90%, preferably from 60% to 80%, by weight, of a first
                portion wherein the first portion comprises a sensitive ingredient and
                wherein the first portion has a first melting point; and
            b. from 10% to 55%, preferably from 20% to 40%, by weight, of a second
                portion wherein the second portion has a second melting point and
                wherein the second melting point is greater than the first melting point.
  2. The composition of claim 1 wherein the first portion further comprises a fat and a
       sweetener.
  3. The composition of claim 2 wherein the fat is a cocoa butter component.
  4. The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the second portion
       further comprises a fat.
  5. The composition of claim 4 wherein the fat is partially hydrogenated vegetable
       oil.
  6. The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the second portion
       further comprises a sweetener.
  7. The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the second portion is
       substantially free of a sensitive ingredient.
  8.   The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the second melting
       point is at least 1.66 'C (3 F) greater than the first melting point, preferably at
       least 2.77 'C (5 F) greater than the first melting point.

                                          30
9. The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the first melting point
    is at least 29.4'C (85 'F) and wherein the second melting point is at least 43.3 'C
    (110 -F).
10. The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the first portion has a
    water activity from 0.1 to 0.4.
11. The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the second portion
    covers from 10% to 50% of a surface of the first portion.
12. The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the first portion is
    adjacent to the second portion.
13. The composition according to any preceding claim, wherein the composition is a
    supplement for pets.
14. The composition of claim 7 wherein the sensitive ingredient is a Probiotic.
15. The composition according to any preceding claim, 14 wherein the second portion
    is substantially free of a Probiotic.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
