1002031958
                                              ABSTRACT
        An insect trap device and methods of using the device are described herein. In some
embodiments, an insect trap includes a light source, a removable enclosure with at least one
opening, an adhesive surface at least partially within the enclosure, and optics to redirect light
from the light source onto an adhesive trapping surface. The light source may include at least one
light emitting diode (LED). The optics may be attached to the removable enclosure, and may be
located at least partially within the enclosure. The optics may include optical enhancers such as a
reflector, a lens and/or a diffuser. The insect trap may further include an insect attractant that
emits sound or scent.

1002031958
                      INSECT TRAP DEVICE AND METHOD OF USING
                                          TECHNICAL FIELD
        [0001] The present disclosure is related generally to an insect trap, more particularly, to a
removable insect trap having a minimal footprint and an aesthetically pleasing design.
                       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [0001A] The present application is a divisional of parent application 2014223364
published as WO 2014/134371 Al, the contents of which are incorporated by reference. The
reader is directed to that earlier specification for aspects described herein.
        [0002] The present application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application
no. 61/771,774, entitled "Insect Trap Device and Method of Using" filed March 1, 2013, and U.S.
provisional patent application no. 61/787,629, entitled "Insect Trap Device and Method of Using"
filed March 15, 2013, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
        [0003] Flying insect pests have long been a nuisance and a health hazard. Since ancient
times, insect traps have been used to eliminate flying insects, and hundreds of different traps have
been proposed and developed over the centuries. There has always been a need to eliminate flies
and mosquitos that inevitably find their way into homes. Recent US outbreaks of Eastern Equine
Encephalitis, West Nile virus and harmful E. Coli infections, public health threats that can be
spread by flying insects, have only increased this need. Because insects may see and be attracted
to a combination of ultraviolet (UV) and visible light, an indoor insect trap may have its own UV
and visible light sources. Insect traps commonly have a fluorescent tube that emits both UV and
visible light to attract insects and a glue board to trap them. However, insect traps incorporating
fluorescent tubes and the transformers that power them may be too large to fit wherever they're
needed and too expensive to afford one for every room in the house. In addition, insects may
contact the fluorescent tube and over time it may accumulate dust and insect debris, blocking the
light and reducing the trap's effectiveness. Furthermore, the glue board may be difficult to remove
and replace without touching trapped insects and adhesive.
                                                     1

1002031958
         [0003A] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or
that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be combined with other pieces of prior art by a
skilled person in the art.
                                              SUMMARY
         [00041 An insect trap device and methods of using the device are described herein. The
insect trap may effectively attract and trap insects indoors and may be manufactured and sold at a
lower cost than commercially available traps.          The insect trap device may be smaller than
competing indoor insect traps, and may be conveniently movable from one location to another.
The insect trap device may be easier to clean and maintain without contacting trapped insects.
        [0004A] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method of using an insect trap,
comprising: providing a base portion comprising a lighting element; providing a trap portion
comprising an enclosure and an adhesive surface for trapping an insect; coupling the base portion
to a power source to provide power to a lighting element; and wherein the lighting element is
turned off upon separating the trap portion from the base portion.
        [0004B] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method comprising:
providing a base portion of an insect trap; providing a first trap portion of an insect trap, wherein
the first trap portion comprises an opening; mounting the first trap portion to the base portion;
coupling the base portion to a power source to provide power to a lighting element, wherein the
lighting element is within the base portion or first trap portion and wherein the lighting element
attracts an insect into the first trap portion; receiving an insect into the first trap portion through
the opening; separating the first trap portion from the base portion; disposing of the first trap
portion; and wherein upon separating the first trap portion from the base portion, the lighting
element is powered off.
        [0004C] In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method comprising: providing a
base portion of an insect trap; providing a first trap portion of an insect trap, wherein the first trap
portion comprises an opening; mounting the first trap portion to the base portion; coupling the
base portion to a power source to provide power to a lighting element, wherein the lighting
element is within the base portion or first trap portion and wherein the lighting element attracts an
insect into the first trap portion; receiving an insect into the first trap portion through the opening;
separating the first trap portion from the base portion; disposing of the first trap portion; and
                                                    2

1002031958
wherein upon separating the first trap portion from the base portion, the lighting element is at least
partially shielded from emitting light.
         [00051 Disclosed herein is an insect trap including: a trap portion including an enclosure
having an adhesive surface and a first opening, wherein the adhesive surface is at least partially
contained within the enclosure and is configured to adhere to an insect; and a base portion
including a lighting element and a mounting portion, wherein the lighting element is configured to
provide light to the trap portion, and wherein the mounting portion is configured to communicate
with and receive power from a power source; wherein the trap portion is configured to removably
engage with the base portion and receive light from the base portion when engaged therewith.        In
an embodiment, the first opening is configured to allow an insect to enter into the enclosure. In
an embodiment, the enclosure includes a second opening, the second opening configured to allow
light to emit from the enclosure.      In an embodiment, within the base portion, the light is not
manipulated.     In an embodiment, the enclosure includes a third opening, the third opening
configured to allow light to be received from base portion into the enclosure. In an embodiment,
wherein the enclosure is configured to distribute the light in a predetermined pattern.         In an
embodiment, the enclosure includes: a front housing portion having a first internal surface; and a
rear housing portion having a second internal surface, wherein the front housing portion and rear
housing portion are matingly engaged with each other to form the enclosure; and wherein at least
one of the first or second internal surfaces is configured to manipulate light. In an embodiment, at
least one of the first or second internal surfaces includes an adhesive surface. In an embodiment,
the rear housing portion has a concave surface, the concave surface configured to reflect light
evenly within the enclosure. In an embodiment, light is transmitted through the adhesive surface,
illuminating the adhesive surface to attract an insect to the adhesive surface. In an embodiment,
the enclosure includes: a front housing portion having a first internal surface; a rear housing
portion having a second internal surface; and a divider portion disposed at least partially between
the front housing portion and rear housing portion, wherein the front housing portion and rear
housing portion are matingly engaged with each other to form the enclosure; and wherein the
divider portion divides the enclosure into a front enclosure portion and a rear enclosure portion.
In an embodiment, the divider portion includes a rear surface including translucent material and
includes a front surface including an adhesive surface. In an embodiment, the second internal
surface of the rear housing portion includes a concave surface, the concave surface configured to
reflect light onto the rear surface of the divider portion. In an embodiment, light is transmitted
                                                    3

1002031958
through the adhesive surface, illuminating the adhesive surface to attract an insect to the adhesive
surface. In an embodiment, the rear surface of the divider portion is configured to receive the
light from the second internal surface of the rear housing portion or directly from the lighting
element. In an embodiment, the divider portion is configured to receive light at an oblique angle
and spread across the divider portion. In an embodiment, the divider portion is configured to
manipulate light. In an embodiment, the divider portion includes a planar or contoured shape,
wherein the shape of the divider portion is configured to optimize light distribution.            In an
embodiment, the base portion includes a protrusion and wherein the trap portion includes a recess
for receiving the protrusion, wherein when the protrusion is received by the trap portion, the base
portion and trap portion are engaged. In an embodiment, the trap portion includes a protrusion
and wherein the base portion includes a recess for receiving the protrusion, wherein when the
protrusion is received by the base portion, the base portion and trap portion are engaged. In an
embodiment, the trap portion includes a polymeric, fibrous, or carbon-based material. In an
embodiment, the mounting portion includes an electrical plug having rigid conductors protruding
substantially perpendicularly and directly from the rear surface of the mounting portion, wherein
the conductors are insertable into an electrical power outlet. In an embodiment, the power source
includes an electrical power outlet or a battery. In an embodiment, the lighting element includes a
 light emitting diode (LED). In an embodiment, the lighting element includes an ultraviolet (UV)
LED and a blue LED.           In an embodiment, the base portion includes an energy stabilizer
configured to provide a constant voltage to the lighting element. In an embodiment, the energy
stabilizer includes full rectifier circuit. In an embodiment, the base portion includes an opening,
the opening configured to allow light to emit from the base portion to the trap portion. In an
embodiment, the opening includes a transparent or translucent window. In an embodiment, the
opening is proximate to the lighting element. In an embodiment, the trap portion includes an
 insect attractant. In an embodiment, the insect attractant is selected from the group consisting of:
 sorbitol, coleopteran attractants, dipteran attractants, homopteran attractants, lepidopteran, straight
chain lepidopteran pheromones, eugenol, methyl eugenol, and siglure. In an embodiment, the
 coleopteran attractants include brevicomin, dominicalure, frontalin, grandlure, ipsdienol, ipsenol,
japonilure, lineatin, megatomoic acid, multistriatin, oryctalure, sulcatol, and trunc-call. In an
 embodiment, the dipteran attractants include ceralure, cue-lure, latilure, medlure, moguchun,
muscalure, and trimedlure, In an embodiment, the homopteran attractants include rescalure. In
 an embodiment, the lepidopteran attractants include disparlure. In an embodiment, the straight
                                                     4

1002031958
chain lepidopteran pheromones include codlelure, gossyplure, hexalure, litlure, looplure,
orfralure, and ostramone. In an embodiment, the insect attractant is integral to the enclosure. In
an embodiment, the base portion includes a transmitter.          In an embodiment, the transmitter
includes a piezoelectric speaker configured to emit an insect-attracting sound. In an embodiment,
the insect-attracting sound includes frequencies in the range of approximately 0.2Hz to 240KHz.
In an embodiment, the base includes a switch, the switch configured to allow a user to control a
property of the trap. In an embodiment, the property is selected from the group consisting of:
power, light intensity, light wavelength or frequency, light flickering, light patterns, and
combinations thereof. In an embodiment, the switch includes a mechanical switch, an optical
switch, an electronic switch, an electromechanical switch, or a Hall effect sensor.             In an
embodiment, the enclosure includes a reflective surface. In an embodiment, the adhesive surface
is proximate to the reflective surface.     In an embodiment, the base portion includes a circuit
configured to a varying voltage to the lighting element, wherein the lighting element provides
intermittent light to the trap portion. In an embodiment, the enclosure includes an outer surface,
the outer surface at least partially surrounded by sleeve that is configured to reduce the amount of
light emitted by the enclosure. In an embodiment, the at least one of the first or second internal
surfaces includes a textured surface, the textured surface configured to increase the surface area of
the enclosure. In an embodiment, the textured surfaces include ribs extending at least a portion of
the length of the first or second internal surfaces. In an embodiment, the at least one of the first or
second internal surfaces include a textured surface, the textured surface configured to increase the
surface area of the enclosure. In an embodiment, the textured surfaces include ribs extending at
least a portion of the length of the first or second internal surfaces. In an embodiment, the trap
further includes: a light conducting body located proximate to the second internal surface of the
rear housing portion, the light conducting body having a front surface and a rear surface and the
light conducting body configured to receive light from the base portion and distribute the light in
a predetermined pattern in the enclosure.        In an embodiment, the front surface of the light
conducting body further includes an adhesive material. In an embodiment, the rear surface of the
light reflecting body is configured to reduce the amount of light from being emitted in a
predetermined direction. In an embodiment, the light conducting body is tapered, having a thicker
depth at a portion proximate to the base portion and a thinner depth at an opposite end. In an
embodiment, the rear surface of the light conducting body is configured to reflect light into the
light conducting body.       In an embodiment, light is reflected multiple times within the light
                                                    5

1002031958
conducting body before being emitted into the enclosure. In an embodiment, the rear surface
includes a rear cover or a matte layer. In an embodiment, the base portion further includes an
optical enhancer, the optical enhancer configured to direct the light into the trap portion in a
predetermined pattern.       In an embodiment, the optical enhancer includes a lens.          In an
embodiment, the enclosure includes an inner sleeve and the base portion includes an outer sleeve,
the inner sleeve configured to align with the outer sleeve. In an embodiment, the outer sleeve
includes a face plate having an opening. In an embodiment, the face plate opening corresponds to
an enclosure opening, the openings providing an alignment means. In an embodiment, the inner
sleeve is configured to be dropped into the outer sleeve.      In an embodiment, the inner sleeve
includes a tab for holding on to the inner sleeve. In an embodiment, the base portion includes a
docking switch, the docking switch configured to activate the lighting element when the trap
portion is correctly engaged with the base portion. In an embodiment, the trap portion includes a
docking switch activator, the docking switch activator configured to activate the docking switch
when the trap portion is correctly engaged with the base portion. In an embodiment, the docking
switch includes a mechanical switch, an optical switch, an electronic switch, an electromechanical
switch, or a Hall- effect sensor.
         [0006] Disclosed herein is an insect trap including: a trap portion including: an enclosure
having an adhesive surface and a first opening, wherein the adhesive surface is at least partially
contained within the enclosure and is configured to adhere to an insect, and a lighting element at
least partially contained within the enclosure, wherein the lighting element is configured to
provide light within the enclosure and wherein the lighting element is configured to communicate
with and receive power from a power source; and a base portion configured to removably engage
the trap portion and provide access to the power source. In an embodiment, the lighting element
includes a plurality of electrical trap contacts and wherein the base portion includes a plurality of
electrical base contacts, the trap contacts configured to communicate with the base contacts to
provide power to the lighting element. In an embodiment, the base contacts are in communication
with the power source. In an embodiment, the lighting element includes a light emitting diode
(LED).
         [00071 Disclosed herein is a removable insect trap cartridge including: an enclosure
defining the cartridge, the enclosure having an adhesive surface and a first opening, wherein the
adhesive surface is at least partially contained within the enclosure and is configured to adhere to
 an insect, wherein the first opening is configured to allow an insect to enter the enclosure, and
                                                   6

1002031958
wherein the enclosure is configured to provide light in a predetermined pattern within the
enclosure.     In an embodiment, the enclosure further includes a lighting element.           In an
embodiment, the lighting element includes a light emitting diode (LED). In an embodiment, the
lighting element includes an ultraviolet (UV) LED and a blue LED.           In an embodiment, the
enclosure includes: a front housing portion having a first internal surface; and a rear housing
portion having a second internal surface, wherein the front housing portion and rear housing
portion are matingly engaged with each other to form the enclosure; and wherein at least one of
the first or second internal surfaces is configured to manipulate light. In an embodiment, at least
one of the first or second internal surfaces includes an adhesive surface. In an embodiment, the
rear housing portion has a concave surface, the concave surface configured to reflect light evenly
within the enclosure.     In an embodiment, light is transmitted through the adhesive surface,
illuminating the adhesive surface to attract an insect to the adhesive surface. In an embodiment,
the enclosure includes: a front housing portion having a first internal surface;     a rear housing
portion having a second internal surface; and a divider portion disposed at least partially between
the front housing portion and rear housing portion, wherein the front housing portion and rear
housing portion are matingly engaged with each other to form the enclosure; and wherein the
divider portion divides the enclosure into a front enclosure portion and a rear enclosure portion.
In an embodiment, the divider portion includes a rear surface having translucent material and
includes a front surface having an adhesive surface.       In an embodiment, the second internal
surface of the rear housing portion includes a concave surface, the concave surface configured to
reflect light onto the rear surface of the divider portion. In an embodiment, light is transmitted
through the adhesive surface, illuminating the adhesive surface to attract an insect to the adhesive
surface. In an embodiment, the rear surface of the divider portion is configured to receive the
light from the second internal surface of the rear housing portion or directly from a lighting
element.     In an embodiment, the enclosure includes a bottom surface, the bottom surface
configured to be removably received in a pluggable base.          In an embodiment, wherein the
enclosure includes biodegradable materials. In an embodiment, the enclosure includes an outer
surface, the outer surface including a decorative element.      In an embodiment, the decorative
element includes a shape selected from the group consisting of: a flower, a plant, a shell, a
company logo, a sports team logo, a football, a basketball, a soccer ball, a hockey puck, a football
helmet or a hockey stick. In an embodiment, the trap portion includes an insect attractant. In an
embodiment, the insect attractant is selected from the group consisting of: sorbitol, coleopteran
                                                  7

1002031958
attractants, dipteran attractants, homopteran attractants, lepidopteran, straight chain lepidopteran
pheromones, eugenol, methyl eugenol, and siglure.        In an embodiment, the insect attractant is
detectable by an insect at a distance of approximately 2 meters from the cartridge.              In an
embodiment, the enclosure includes a textured surface, the textured surface configured to increase
the surface area of the enclosure. In an embodiment, the textured surface includes ribs extending
at least a portion of the length of the enclosure. In an embodiment, the cartridge further includes:
a light conducting body located within the enclosure, the light conducting body configured to
receive light and distribute the light in a predetermined pattern in the enclosure.             In an
embodiment, the enclosure includes an inner sleeve that is configured to be received into and
aligned with an outer sleeve. In an embodiment, the outer sleeve includes a face plate having an
opening. In an embodiment, the face plate opening corresponds to an enclosure opening, the
openings providing an alignment means. In an embodiment, the inner sleeve includes a tab for
holding on to the inner sleeve.       In an embodiment, the cartridge includes a docking switch
activator, the docking switch activator configured to activate a docking switch when the cartridge
is correctly engaged with a base portion. In an embodiment, the docking switch activator includes
a mechanical switch, an optical switch, an electronic switch, an electromechanical switch, or a
Hall effect sensor.
         [00081 Disclosed herein is a method including: providing a base portion of an insect trap;
providing a first trap portion of an insect trap, wherein the first trap portion includes an opening;
mounting the first trap portion to the base portion; coupling the base portion to a power source to
provide power to a lighting element, wherein the lighting element is within the base portion or
first trap portion and wherein the lighting element is configured to attract an insect into the first
trap portion; and receiving an insect into the first trap portion through the opening.           In an
embodiment, the method further includes: separating the first trap portion from the base portion;
and disposing of the first trap portion, wherein the insect remains in the disposed first trap portion.
In an embodiment, the first trap portion is disposed without the human contact with the insect in
the first trap portion. In an embodiment, the first trap portion includes an adhesive surface and
wherein the insect adheres to the adhesive surface. In an embodiment, the base portion includes a
docking switch, wherein the docking switch is configured to activate the lighting element when
the first trap portion is correctly mounted to the base portion. In an embodiment, upon separating
the first trap portion from the base portion, the lighting element is powered off.               In an
embodiment, upon separating the first trap portion from the base portion, the lighting element is
                                                   8

 1002031958
partially shielded from emitting light. In an embodiment, the method further includes: providing
a second trap portion of an insect trap, wherein the second trap portion includes an opening; and
mounting the second trap portion to the base portion. In an embodiment, the first insect trap and
second insect trap have different configurations.
         [00091 Disclosed herein is a docking apparatus including: a docking structure configured
to activate in response to a docking activator, the docking activator located on a separate piece
configured to engage the docking structure, wherein the docking structure is in communication
with a power source and is configured to control power to a lighting element. In an embodiment,
the docking activator includes a surface, a protrusion, a tab or a magnet. In an embodiment, the
docking structure is configured to close when the docking activator engages with it and is
configured to open when the docking activator disengages from it.            In an embodiment, the
docking structure is configured to activate in response to pressure from the docking activator. In
an embodiment, the docking structure is configured to activate in response to displacement from
the docking activator.
         [0010] Disclosed herein is a removable insect trap cartridge including: an enclosure
defining the cartridge, the enclosure having an adhesive surface and a first opening, wherein the
adhesive surface is at least partially contained within the enclosure and is configured to adhere to
an insect, and a docking activator, the docking activator configured to engage a docking structure
in a mounting portion.
         [0011] Further objects, features, and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from
the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the following drawings.
            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
         [00121 While the appended claims set forth the features of the present techniques with
particularity, these techniques, together with their objects and advantages, may be best understood
from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings of
which:
         [0013] Figure 1 is a front perspective view of a first embodiment of an insect trap in
accordance with principles of the disclosure;
         [0014] Figure 2 is a rear perspective view of a base portion of the insect trap of Figure 1
with a trap portion removed;
                                                   9

1002031958
         [00151 Figure 3 is an exploded view of the trap portion of the insect trap of Figure 1;
         [00161 Figure 4 is a cross-sectional view through the insect trap of Figure 1;
         [00171 Figure 5 is a cross-sectional view through a second embodiment of an insect trap in
accordance with principles of the disclosure;
         [00181 Figure 6 is a front perspective view of a third embodiment of an insect trap in
accordance with principles of the disclosure;
         [0019] Figure 7 is a rear perspective view of a base portion of the insect trap of Figure 6
with a trap portion removed;
         [00201 Figure 8 is a perspective view, partly broken away, of the trap portion of the insect
trap of Figure 6;
         [00211 Figure 9 is a cross-sectional view through the insect trap of Figure 6 showing the
interior of the base portion and the trap portion;
         [00221 Figure 10 is a front perspective view of a fourth embodiment of an insect trap in
accordance with principles of the disclosure;
         [00231 Figure 11 is a rear perspective view of the insect trap of Figure 10;
         [00241 Figure 12 is a front perspective view of a fifth embodiment of an insect trap in
accordance with principles of the disclosure;
         [00251 Figure 13 is a rear perspective view of the insect trap of Figure 12;
         [00261 Figure 14 is a front perspective view of the insect trap of Figure 12 showing a trap
portion partially removed from a base portion;
         [0027] Figure 15 is a perspective view, partly broken away, of the trap portion of the
insect trap of Figure 12;
         [0028] Figure 16 is a cross-sectional view through the insect trap of Figure 12 showing the
interiors of the base portion and the trap portion;
         [0029] Figure 17 is an exploded view of a sixth embodiment of an insect trap in
accordance with principles of the disclosure;
         [0030] Figure 18 is a cross-sectional view through the insect trap of Figure 17 showing the
interiors of a base portion and a trap portion;
         [00311 Figure 19 is a cross-sectional view through a seventh embodiment of an insect trap
in accordance with principles of the disclosure;
         [00321 Figure 20 is an enlarged view of a portion of Figure 19;
                                                   10

1002031958
         [0033] Figure 21 is a perspective view of an eighth embodiment of an insect trap in
accordance with principles of the disclosure showing a trap portion removed from a base portion;
         [0034] Figure 22 is a cross sectional view of the insect trap of Figure 21; and
         [0035] Figure 23 is an enlarged view of a portion of Figure 22.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0036] To provide an overall understanding of the devices and methods described herein,
certain illustrative embodiments will now be described. For the purpose of clarity and illustration,
these devices and methods will be described with respect to insect traps used for indoor residential
or commercial purposes. It will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the devices
and methods described herein may be adapted and modified as appropriate.
         [0037] As described herein, an insect trap may include a light source, a removable
enclosure with at least one opening, an adhesive surface at least partially within the enclosure, and
optics to redirect light from the light source onto the adhesive trapping surface. The light source
may include at least one light emitting diode (LED). The optics may be attached to the removable
enclosure, and may be located at least partially within the enclosure. The optics may include
optical enhancers such as a reflector, a lens and/or a diffuser. The insect trap may further include
an insect attractant that emits sound or scent. The light source in the insect trap may deactivate
when the removable enclosure is removed from the insect trap.            The insect trap may further
include rigid conductors protruding substantially perpendicularly and directly from a rear surface
of the insect trap, wherein the conductors may be insertable into an electrical socket, whereby the
insect trap may be mounted by inserting the electrical plug into an electrical socket. Alternately,
the insect trap may include a battery power supply electrically coupled to the light source.
         [0038] The insect trap may effectively attract and trap insects indoors and may be
manufactured and sold at a lower cost than traditionally available insect traps. An insect trap with
this example configuration may be smaller than competing indoor insect traps, and may be
conveniently movable from one location to another.              An insect trap with this example
configuration may be easier to clean and maintain without contacting trapped insects.
         [0039] With reference to the drawings, Figure 1 shows a front perspective view of a first
embodiment of an insect trap, indicated generally at 110. The insect trap 110 includes a base
portion 112 and a removable trap portion 114.        A front surface 160 of base portion 112 may
include a switch 116, configurable to enable the insect trap 110 to be turned on or off by closing
                                                  11

1002031958
or opening the switch 116 as desired by the user. Alternatively, switch 116 may be configured to
control other features such as light intensity, combinations of light wavelengths, different modes
or frequencies of flickering light, an automatic setting that turns on when the room gets dark, or a
remote control setting, for example. Trap portion 114 includes a front housing 118 with at least
one opening 120 in a front surface 168.
         [0040] Figure 2 shows a rear perspective view of base portion 112 of insect trap 110 with
trap portion 114 removed.       Protruding from a rear surface 162 of base portion 112 are two
electrically conductive prongs 122, adapted to mount insect trap 110 to a wall and provide power
to insect trap 110 by inserting prongs 122 into a standard household electrical wall socket.
Alternatively, base portion 112 may be configured to sit or hang wherever desired and receive
power from batteries (not shown) mounted in base portion 112.         While an electrical socket and
batteries have been described as providing power to trap 110, any suitable power source may be
used. Base portion 112 includes a lighting element such as one or more light emitting diodes
(LEDs) 124. In some embodiments, the LEDs 124 include one that emits ultraviolet (UV) light
and one that emits visible light (e.g., blue light). In some embodiments, the lighting element
emits a combination of wavelengths to mimic sunlight. Mounted in top surface 126 of base
portion 112 may be a transparent or translucent window 128, shown partially cut away to reveal
LEDs 124. Transparent or translucent window 128 protects the one or more LEDs 124 from dust
and insect debris, and allows base portion 112 to be easily cleaned. In top surface 126 may be a
slot 130, and on perimeter 164 of top surface 126 is a rim or upwardly directed protrusions 132.
         [0041] Figure 3 shows an exploded view of trap portion 114 of insect trap 110. Trap
portion 114 includes front housing 118 with at least one opening 120, a divider 134, and a rear
housing 140. In some embodiments, divider 134 is constructed from or includes a transparent or
translucent material and may be coated with a transparent or translucent adhesive 136 on a front
 surface 138. In some embodiments, the material and thickness of divider 134 and the material
and thickness of adhesive 136 are selected to transmit a substantial proportion of the UV and
visible light, for example greater than 60% of the light is transmitted through divider 134 and
adhesive 136. In some embodiments, rear housing 140 includes a reflective-coated inside surface
 142.   Alternatively, the material and surface finish of rear housing 140 may be configured to
reflect UV and/or visible light without a reflective coating. The rear housing 140 may include an
opening 144 on its bottom surface 166, or alternatively opening 144 may be replaced by a
transparent or translucent window (not shown).
                                                  12

1002031958
         [00421 Front housing 118 and rear housing 140 may be constructed from any suitable
material, including a thermoformed opaque plastic material or other opaque, transparent or
translucent materials such as paper, paperboard, cardboard or paper pulp. In some embodiments,
front housing 118 and rear housing 140 are constructed by injection molding or by other suitable
manufacturing techniques.      As shown, divider 134 is substantially planar, although it may be
formed into a convex, concave or saddle-shaped contour, or a combination of contours to
optimize the even distribution of light. Alternatively, divider 134 may have ribs or other features
that increase adhesive surface area and create regions of light / dark contrast, which are highly
visible to a wide variety of insects and may be more attractive to them.
         [0043] In some embodiments, front housing 118 may be coated with transparent,
translucent or opaque adhesive on an inside surface 170 to provide additional insect trapping
efficiency and capacity.     In addition, front housing 118 may also have a reflective coating
underneath the adhesive coating on inside surface 170 to enhance its attraction to insects and
further improve the insect trapping efficiency and effectiveness.
         [00441 In some embodiments, front housing 118, divider 134 and rear housing 140 are
joined together at their perimeters with adhesive, although they may also be joined by other
commonly used packaging assembly techniques such as ultrasonic welding or RF sealing, or any
other suitable assembly method.        The materials of trap portion 114 may also include insect
attractants.   For example, trap portion 114 may be impregnated with sorbitol, coleopteran
attractants including brevicomin, dominicalure, frontalin, grandlure, ipsdienol, ipsenol, japonilure,
lineatin, megatomoic acid, multistriatin, oryctalure, sulcatol, and trunc-call, dipteran attractants
including ceralure, cue-lure, latilure, medlure, moguchun, muscalure, and trimedlure, homopteran
attractants including rescalure, lepidopteran attractants such as disparlure, straight chain
lepidopteran pheromones including codlelure, gossyplure, hexalure, litlure, looplure, orfralure,
and ostramone, and other insect attractants such as eugenol, methyl eugenol, and siglure, or other
substances to provide a scent that further increases the insect-attracting efficiency of the insect
trap 110. In such embodiments, the insect attractant is integral to trap portion 114. Alternatively,
the insect attractants may be embedded in a separate piece that mounts on inside surface 170 of
front housing 118 or through an opening 120 in front housing 118 or on front surface 138 of
divider 134. It is desirable for such attractants to be detectable by an insect for approximately a 2
meter radius from trap 110.
                                                   13

1002031958
         [0045] Figure 4 is a cross-sectional, cut-away view through insect trap 110 showing the
interiors of base portion 112 and trap portion 114. As shown, divider 134 separates the trap
portion 114 into a front enclosure 146 and a rear enclosure 148. In some embodiments, base
portion 112 includes a circuit board 150 having a programmable processor or chip (not shown) for
executing commands, electrically connected to conductive prongs 122, switch 116 and the one or
more LEDs 124. For clarity, however, not all of the electrical connections are shown. The circuit
board 150 may include electronic circuitry to receive ordinary household current from conductive
prongs 122, respond to the position of switch 116 and provide power to illuminate the one or
more LEDs 124. Circuit board 150 may include an energy stabilizer such as a full wave rectifier
circuit or any other circuit that provides steady voltage to the one or more LEDs 124 when switch
116 is in the closed position, although it may also provide a varying voltage to the one or more
LEDs 124 to provide a flickering light, which some species of insects find attractive.           For
example, light flickering frequencies in the approximate range of 0.05Hz (e.g., to mimic the
breathing rate of large mammals) to 250Hz (e.g., the highest flicker frequency known to attract
male houseflies), may be desirable and the lighting element may be configured to flicker within
this range. Circuit board 150 may provide power to the one or more LEDs 124 to provide both
UV and visible light, although it may be configured to provide power to only the one or more UV
LEDs 124 or to only the one or more visible light LEDs 124, or to provide variable power to
produce combinations of flickering UV and visible light.           Circuit board 150 may also be
configured to drive a transmitter or transceiver such as a piezoelectric speaker (not shown) or
other device that may be mounted in the base portion 112 to emit an insect-attracting sound. For
example, the transmitter or transceiver may emit an insect-attracting sound having a frequency in
the range of approximately 0.5Hz (e.g., the heart rate of large mammals) to 240KHz (e.g., the
highest frequency detectable by insects). In some embodiments, the frequency is in the range of
approximately 5Hz to 100KHz.           In some embodiments, the frequency is in the range of
approximately 35Hz to 50Khz. It is desirable for such insect-attracting sound to be detectable by
an insect for approximately a 2 meter radius from trap 110.          It is desirable for such insect
attracting sound to be undetectable by a human beyond approximately a 1 meter radius from trap
110.
         [0046] As shown, slot 130 in top surface 126 of base portion 112 and protrusions 132 on
top surface 126 of base portion 112 engage with trap portion 114 to secure it in place during use,
                                                   14

1002031958
although any other form of attachment may be substituted that allows trap portion 114 to be
securely but removably mounted to base portion 112.
         [0047] In the operation of insect trap insect trap 110, conductive prongs 122 are inserted
into a wall electrical socket, and switch 116 may be moved to a closed position. The one or more
LEDs 124 emit light, represented by arrows, preferably UV and visible light, which is transmitted
through window 128 in base portion 112, through opening 144 in rear housing 140 of trap portion
114, into rear enclosure 148, and directly onto reflective-coated inside surface 142 of rear housing
140 and a rear surface 152 of divider 134. In some embodiments, light is not manipulated in base
portion 112 and is emitted directly into trap portion 114. Reflective-coated inside surface 142 of
rear housing 140 may include a concave shape and may be configured to reflect the UV and
visible light from the one or more LEDs 124 to distribute the light evenly onto rear surface 152 of
the divider 134, although the shape of the inside surface 142 of the rear housing 140 may have a
convex shape or a saddle shape or a combination of shapes, or may also have ribs or other features
to more evenly distribute the light.
         [00481 Alternatively, an optical enhancer such as an anamorphic lens (not shown) or any
other lens or combination of lenses configured to distribute the UV and visible light (e.g., evenly,
according to specific patterns, at a focal point, etc.) onto rear surface 152 of divider 134, may be
mounted to the rear housing 140 at or near opening 144, and may replace or augment the role of
the reflective-coated inside surface 142 of rear housing 140. In some embodiments, the UV and
visible light from the one or more LEDs 124 may directly strike rear surface 152 of divider 134 at
an oblique angle (e.g., an acute angle from approximately 0' to 904) and be spread across divider
134, and may replace or augment the role of reflective-coated inside surface 142 of rear housing
140 or of the lens or lenses mounted to rear housing 140.
         [0049] Thereafter, light may transmit through divider 134 and adhesive coating 136 on its
front surface 138, and into front enclosure 146. Light may be further evenly distributed by the
light-diffusing properties of divider 134, adhesive coating 136 on its front surface 138, or both. A
portion of the light entering front enclosure 146 continues through one or more openings 120 in
front housing 118 and is emitted into the surrounding area where the trap is installed. Insects may
be attracted to the UV and/or visible light emitted through adhesive coating 136 and one or more
openings 120 in the front housing 118, and fly or crawl into the one or more openings 120 and
onto the adhesive coating 136, where they become trapped in adhesive (e.g. from adhesive coating
136). A user may observe trapped insects by looking through one or more openings 120 in front
                                                  15

1002031958
housing 118. When a sufficient number of insects have been trapped, the user may easily remove
and discard the entire used trap portion 114 without touching the trapped insects, insect debris or
adhesive, which remain out of reach inside trap portion 114, and replace it with a new trap portion
114.    The new trap portion 114 may have fresh adhesive-coated surfaces and light-directing
surfaces, ensuring that insect trap 110 will continue to efficiently and effectively attract and trap
insects.
         [0050] It should be appreciated that a benefit of trap 110 is the manipulation of light
within trap portion 114.      In some embodiments, light manipulation occurs solely within trap
portion 114. Light manipulation may include reflection, refraction, polarization and/or diffusion
and is achieved by engaging with a manipulative element or surface (e.g., inside surface 142,
divider 134 and adhesive coating 136). In some embodiments, light manipulation produces an
even distribution of light on an adhesive surface or adhesive coating 136. In some embodiments,
light is manipulated to produce a predetermined pattern on the adhesive coating 136 or within trap
portion 114, for example, an even distribution, an even distribution with hot spots of higher
intensity, hot spot patterns, and/or combinations thereof.
         [0051] Any suitable adhesive material may be used as part of an adhesive surface for
trapping an insect. In some embodiments, pressure sensitive adhesives such as acrylics, butyl
rubber, natural rubber, nitriles, silicones, styrene block copolymers, styrene-ethylene/propylene,
styrene-isoprene-styrene, vinyl ethers may be used. Generally, the thickness of such adhesives
will be in the range of approximately 0.01mm to 1mm.           In some embodiments, the adhesive
thickness is in the range of approximately 0.05mm to 0.2mm, with a thickness of approximately
0.1mm being most often used.
         [0052] An insect trap 110 of this configuration may accommodate a variety of different
trap portions 114 that may be removably mounted to base portion 112, each trap portion 114
being uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of flying insect.
For example, the overall size and shape of trap portion 114, and the size, shape, and orientation of
the openings 120 in the front housing 118 of the trap portion 114, may be uniquely configured to
attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of flying insect.     For example, in some
embodiments, trap portion 114 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide, 20mm to 600mm high
and 5mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 114 is approximately 20mm to
200mm wide, 20mm to 200mm high and 5mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments, trap portion
114 is approximately 20mm to 130mm wide, 20mm to 130mm high and 5mm to 50mm deep.
                                                   16

1002031958
        [0053] In some embodiments, base portion 112 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide,
 10mm to 150mm high and 10mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, base portion 112 is
20mm to 200mm wide, 10mm to 100mm high and 10mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments,
base portion 112 is 20mm to 130mm wide, 10mm to 50mm high and 10mm to 50mm deep.
        [00541 As provided herein, openings 120 may be a variety of shapes and/or sizes. For
example, openings 120 may be circular, square, rectangular, polygonal and/or elliptical in shape.
Alternatively, openings 120 may be slots having straight, curved or undulating shapes or patterns.
When openings 120 are circular, openings 120 may be approximately 0.5mm to 30mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 120 are approximately 0.5mm to 20mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 120 are approximately 0.5mm to 15mm in
diameter.    When openings 120 are slot shaped, openings 120 may be approximately 2mm to
30mm wide and 5mm to 500mm long.                   In some embodiments, slot openings 120 are
approximately 2mm to 20mm wide and 5mm to 200mm long.                   In some embodiments, slot
openings 120 are approximately 2mm to 15mm wide and 5mm to 100mm long.
        [0055] In some embodiments, openings 120 cover all or a portion of trap portion 114. For
example, openings 120 may cover a range of approximately 1% to 75% of the surface area of trap
portion 114. In some embodiments, openings 120 cover approximately 5% to 50% of the surface
area of trap portion 114. In some embodiments, openings 120 cover approximately 10% to 30%
of the surface area of trap portion 114.
        [0056] Figure 5 shows a cross-sectional view of a second embodiment of an insect trap,
indicated generally at 210.      Insect trap 210 includes a base portion 212 and a removable trap
portion 214.     Protruding from a rear surface 262 of base portion 212 are two electrically
conductive prongs 216, only one of which is shown, adapted to mount insect trap 210 to a wall
and provide power to insect trap 210 by inserting prongs 216 into a standard household electrical
wall socket. Alternatively, base portion 212 may be configured to sit or hang wherever desired
and receive power from batteries (not shown) mounted in base portion 212. While an electrical
socket and batteries have been described as providing power to trap 210, any suitable power
source may be used. Base portion 212 includes a lighting element such as one or more LEDs 218.
In some embodiments, LEDs 218 include one that emits ultraviolet (UV) light and one that emits
visible light (e.g., blue light). In some embodiments, the lighting element emits a combination of
wavelengths to mimic sunlight.
                                                   17

1002031958
         [0057] In some embodiments, mounted in a top surface 220 of base portion 212 is a
transparent or translucent window 222, shown partially cut away to reveal LEDs 218.
Transparent or translucent window 222 protects the one or more LEDs 218 from dust and insect
debris, and allows base portion 212 to be easily cleaned. Top surface 220 of base portion 212
may include a slot 224, and on perimeter 270 of top surface 220 are upwardly directed protrusions
226.
         [0058] Trap portion 214 includes a front housing 228 with at least one opening 230 and a
light-conducting body 238. In some embodiments, light-conducting body 238 includes a front
surface 254, an adhesive coating or an adhesive layer 234 on the front surface 254, and a rear
cover 248. In some embodiments, the material and thickness of adhesive layer 234 are selected to
transmit a substantial proportion of the UV and visible light, for example greater than 60% of the
light is transmitted through adhesive layer 234.      Light-conducting body may be tapered and
configured to receive light through its bottom surface 240 from the one or more LEDs 218 and
deflect and evenly distribute the light (e.g., through front surface 254 and adhesive layer 234).
Rear cover 248 may be configured to prevent light from escaping through the back, top and side
surfaces of light-conducting body 238. As provided herein, any suitable light-conducting body
may be used.
         [0059] Front housing 228 may be constructed from any suitable material, including a
thermoformed opaque plastic material or other opaque, transparent or translucent materials such
as paper, paperboard, cardboard or paper pulp.       In some embodiments, front housing 228 is
constructed by injection molding or by other suitable manufacturing techniques.
         [0060] The front housing 228 may also be coated with transparent, translucent or opaque
adhesive on an inside surface (not shown) to provide additional insect trapping efficiency and
capacity. In addition, the front housing 228 may also have a reflective coating underneath the
adhesive coating on its inside surface to enhance its attraction to insects and further improve the
 insect trapping efficiency and effectiveness. Front housing 228 and light-conducting body 238
may be joined together at their perimeters with adhesive, although they may also be joined by
 other commonly used packaging assembly techniques such as ultrasonic welding or RF sealing, or
 any other suitable assembly method.
         [0061] As shown, front housing 228 and light-conducting body 238 together form a front
 enclosure 246. Light-conducting body 238 may be tapered (e.g., thicker at a bottom surface 240
 and thinner at a top surface 242), and may be constructed from any transparent material that
                                                  18

1002031958
conducts UV and/or visible light, such as acrylic or polycarbonate plastic. The inside surfaces
(not shown) of rear cover 248 may have a reflective coating to reflect light back into light
conducting body 238 and through its front surface 254, thereby increasing its light-transmitting
efficiency.   Light-conducting body 238 may also have facets or other features of varying size,
depth, and density on front surface 254 to enhance its light-transmitting efficiency.
        [0062] Alternatively, in some embodiments, light-conducting body 238 has facets or other
features on its front surface 254 and is not tapered. Light-conducting body 238 with microscopic
facets or other features on its front surface 254 is commonly referred to as a Light Guide Plate,
although the facets or other features may also be larger and still function effectively.
        [0063] Alternatively, in some embodiments, light-conducting body 238 may not have an
adhesive coating, and light conducting body 238 and rear cover 248 may be part of the base
portion 212. In such embodiments, trap portion 214 may include a transparent or translucent back
plate (not shown) with an adhesive coating on its front surface, attached at its perimeter to the
front housing 228.
        [0064] The materials of the trap portion 214 may also include insect attractants.        For
example, trap portion 214 may be impregnated with sorbitol, coleopteran attractants including
brevicomin,     dominicalure,   frontalin,  grandlure,  ipsdienol,    ipsenol,  japonilure, lineatin,
megatomoic acid, multistriatin, oryctalure, sulcatol, and trunc-call, dipteran attractants including
ceralure,   cue-lure, latilure, medlure, moguchun, muscalure, and trimedlure,            homopteran
attractants including rescalure,    lepidopteran attractants such as disparlure, straight chain
lepidopteran pheromones including codlelure, gossyplure, hexalure, litlure, looplure, orfralure,
and ostramone, and other insect attractants such as eugenol, methyl eugenol, and siglure, or other
substances to provide a scent that further increases the insect-attracting efficiency of the insect
trap. In such embodiments, the insect attractant is integral to trap portion 214. Alternatively, the
insect attractants may be embedded in a separate piece that mounts on an inside surface 250 of
front housing 228 or through the at least one opening 230 in front housing 228 or on front surface
254 of light-conducting body 238. It is desirable for such attractants to be detectable by an insect
for approximately a 2 meter radius from trap 210.
         [0065] In some embodiments, base portion 212 includes a circuit board 252 having a
programmable processor or chip (not shown) for executing commands, electrically connected to
the conductive prongs 216 and one or more LEDs 218.             For clarity, however, not all of the
electrical connections are shown. Circuit board 252 may include electronic circuitry to receive
                                                  19

1002031958
ordinary household current from conductive prongs 216 and provide power to illuminate the one
or more LEDs 218.       Circuit board 252 may include an energy stabilizer such as a full wave
rectifier circuit or any other circuit that provides steady voltage to one or more LEDs 218,
although it may also provide a varying voltage to the one or more LEDs 218 to provide a
flickering light, which some species of insects find attractive.     For example, light flickering
frequencies in the approximate range from 0.05Hz (e.g., to mimic the breathing rate of large
mammals), to 270Hz (e.g., the highest flicker frequency known to attract male houseflies), may be
desirable and the lighting element may be configured to flicker within this range. Circuit board
252 may provide power to the one or more LEDs 218 to provide both UV and visible light
although it may be configured to provide power to only the one or more UV LEDs 218 or to only
the one or more visible light LEDs 218, or to provide variable power to produce combinations of
flickering UV and visible light. Circuit board 252 may also be configured to drive a transmitter or
transceiver such as a piezoelectric speaker or other device that may be mounted in base portion
212 to emit an insect-attracting sound. For example, the transmitter or transceiver may emit an
insect-attracting sound having a frequency in the range of approximately 0.5Hz (e.g., the heart
rate of large mammals), to 240KHz (e.g., the highest frequency detectable by insects). In some
embodiments, the frequency is in the range of approximately 5Hz to 100KHz.                 In some
embodiments, the frequency is in the range of approximately 35Hz to 50Khz. It is desirable for
such insect-attracting sound to be detectable by an insect for approximately a 2 meter radius from
trap 210. It is desirable for such insect-attracting sound to be undetectable by a human beyond
approximately a 1 meter radius from trap 210.
         [0066] As shown, slot 224 in top surface 220 of base portion 212 and protrusions 226 on
top surface 220 of base portion 212 engage with trap portion 214 to secure it in place during use,
although any other form of attachment may be substituted that allows trap portion 214 to be
securely but removably mounted on base portion 212.
         [0067] In the operation of insect trap 210, conductive prongs 216 are inserted into a wall
electrical socket, and one or more LEDs 218 emit light, represented by arrows, preferably UV and
visible light. The light from one or more LEDs 218 may transmit through window 222, enter the
thicker bottom surface 240 of tapered light-conducting body 238 and repeatedly reflect off of its
front surface 254 and its rear surface 256. In some embodiments, light is not manipulated in base
portion 212 and is emitted directly into trap portion 214. A portion of the reflected light may
transmit through front surface 254 of the light-conducting body 238 to provide an evenly
                                                  20

 1002031958
 distributed light onto and through adhesive coating 234 and into front enclosure 246. The light
may be further evenly distributed by refractive and light-diffusing properties of adhesive coating
234 on front surface 254 of light-conducting body 238. A portion of the light entering the front
enclosure 246 continues through one or more openings 230 in front housing 228 and is emitted
 into the surrounding area where the trap 210 is installed. Insects may be attracted to the UV
and/or visible light transmitted through adhesive coating 234 and through one or more openings
230 in the front housing 228, and fly or crawl into one or more openings 230 and onto the
adhesive coating 234, where they become trapped in the adhesive. The user may observe trapped
 insects by looking through one or more openings 230 in front housing 228. When a sufficient
number of insects have been trapped, the user may easily remove and discard the entire used trap
portion 214 without touching the trapped insects, insect debris or adhesive, which remain out of
reach inside trap portion 114, and replace it with a new trap portion 214. The new trap portion
214 may have fresh adhesive-coated surfaces and light-directing surfaces, ensuring that the insect
trap 210 will continue to efficiently and effectively attract and trap insects.
         [0068] It should be appreciated that a benefit of trap 210 is the manipulation of light
within trap portion 214.     In some embodiments, light manipulation occurs solely within trap
portion 214. Light manipulation may include reflection, refraction, polarization and/or diffusion
and is achieved by engaging with a manipulative element or surface (e.g., light-conducting body
238, front surface 254 and rear surface 256, and adhesive coating 234). In some embodiments,
light manipulation produces an even distribution of light on an adhesive surface or adhesive
coating 234. In some embodiments, light is manipulated to produce a predetermined pattern on
the adhesive coating 234 or within trap portion 214, for example, an even distribution, an even
distribution with hot spots of higher intensity, hot spot patterns, and/or combinations thereof.
         [0069] Any suitable adhesive material may be used as part of an adhesive surface for
trapping an insect.    In some embodiments, pressure sensitive adhesives such as acrylics, butyl
rubber, natural rubber, nitriles, silicones, styrene block copolymers, styrene-ethylene/propylene,
styrene-isoprene-styrene, vinyl ethers may be used. Generally, the thickness of such adhesives
will be in the range of approximately 0.01mm to 1mm.            In some embodiments, the adhesive
thickness is in the range of approximately 0.05mm to 0.2mm, with a thickness of approximately
0.1mm being most often used.
         [0070] An insect trap 210 of this configuration may accommodate a variety of different
trap portions 214 that may be removably mounted to base portion 212, each trap portion 214
                                                  21

1002031958
being uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of insects. For
example, the overall size and shape of trap portion 214, and the size, shape, and orientation of the
openings 230 in front housing 228 of trap portion 214, may be uniquely configured to attract and
trap a specific species or multiple species of insects. For example, in some embodiments, trap
portion 214 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide, 20mm to 600mm high and 5mm to 150mm
deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 214 is approximately 20mm to 200mm wide, 20mm to
200mm high and 5mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 214 is approximately
20mm to 130mm wide, 20mm to 130mm high and 5mm to 50mm deep.
        [0071] In some embodiments, base portion 212 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide,
 10mm to 150mm high and 10mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, base portion 212 is
20mm to 200mm wide, 10mm to 100mm high and 10mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments,
base portion 212 is 20mm to 130mm wide, 10mm to 50mm high and 10mm to 50mm deep.
        [00721 As provided herein, openings 230 may be a variety of shapes and/or sizes. For
example, openings 230 may be circular, square, rectangular, polygonal and/or elliptical in shape.
Alternatively, openings 230 may be slots having straight, curved or undulating shapes or patterns.
When openings 230 are circular, openings 230 may be approximately 0.5mm to 30mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 230 are approximately 0.5mm to 20mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 230 are approximately 0.5mm to 15mm in
diameter.   When openings 230 are slot shaped, openings 230 may be approximately 2mm to
30mm wide and 5mm to 500mm long.                In some embodiments, slot openings 230 are
approximately 2mm to 20mm wide and 5mm to 200mm long.                  In some embodiments, slot
openings 230 are approximately 2mm to 15mm wide and 5mm to 100mm long.
        [0073] In some embodiments, openings 230 cover all or a portion of trap portion 214. For
example, openings 230 may cover a range of approximately 1%to 75% of the surface area of trap
portion 214. In some embodiments, openings 230 cover approximately 5% to 50% of the surface
area of trap portion 214. In some embodiments, openings 230 cover approximately 10% to 30%
of the surface area of trap portion 214.
        [0074] Figure 6 shows a front perspective view of a third embodiment of an insect trap,
indicated generally at 310. Insect trap 310 includes a base portion 312 and a removable trap
portion 314. In some embodiments, front surface 360 of base portion 312 includes a switch 316,
configurable to enable insect trap 310 to be turned on or off by closing or opening switch 316, as
desired by the user. Alternatively, switch 316 may be configured to control other features such as
                                                 22

1002031958
light intensity, combinations of light wavelengths, different flickering frequencies or modes, an
automatic setting that turns on when the room gets dark, or a remote control setting, for example.
Trap portion 314 includes a housing 318 with at least one opening 320.
         [0075] Figure 7 shows a rear perspective view of base portion 312 of insect trap 310 with
trap portion 314 removed.       Protruding from a rear surface 362 of base portion 312 are two
electrically conductive prongs 322, adapted to mount insect trap 310 to a wall and provide power
to insect trap 310 by inserting into a standard household electrical wall socket. Alternatively, base
portion 312 may be configured to sit or hang wherever desired and receive power from batteries
(not shown) mounted in base portion 312. While an electrical socket and batteries have been
described as providing power to trap 310, any suitable power source may be used. Base portion
312 includes a lighting element such as one or more LEDs 324. In some embodiments, the LEDs
324 include one that emits ultraviolet (UV) light and one that emits visible light (e.g., blue light).
In some embodiments, the lighting element emits a combination of wavelengths to mimic
sunlight. Mounted in top surface 326 of base portion 312 may be a transparent or translucent
window 328, shown partially cut away to reveal LEDs 324. Transparent or translucent window
328 protects the one or more LEDs 324 from dust and insect debris, and allows base portion 312
to be easily cleaned. Upwardly directed protrusions or a rim 330 protruding from perimeter 364
of top surface 326 of base portion 312 may serve to secure trap portion 314 in place during use,
although any other form of attachment may be substituted that allows trap portion 314 to be
securely but removably mounted to base portion 312.
         [00761 Figure 8 shows a perspective view, partly broken away, of trap portion 314 of
insect trap 310. Trap portion 314 includes housing 318, which forms an enclosure with one or
more openings 320, and a transparent or translucent adhesive coating applied to one or more
inside surface 334.    In some embodiments, the material and thickness of housing 318 and the
material and thickness of the adhesive coating are selected to transmit a substantial proportion of
the UV and visible light, for example greater than 60% of the light is transmitted through housing
318 and the adhesive coating.       Housing 318 may be constructed from any suitable material,
including a thermoformed opaque plastic material or other opaque, transparent or translucent
materials such as paper, paperboard, cardboard or paper pulp. In some embodiments, housing 318
is constructed by injection molding or by other suitable manufacturing techniques.
         [0077] As shown, housing 318 includes ribs 336 or other features that increase the
adhesive-coated surface area, produce alternating light/dark regions that some insect species find
                                                  23

1002031958
attractive, and enhance the transmission of insect-attracting light into interior 370 of trap portion
314. A sleeve 338, configured to reduce the amount of light emitted by outside surface 368 of
housing 318, covers outside surface 368 of housing 318 except for a bottom surface 366 and at
one or more openings 320. Sleeve 338 may be constructed from any suitable material, including a
thermoformed opaque plastic material or other opaque, transparent or translucent materials such
as paper, paperboard, cardboard or paper pulp. In some embodiments, sleeve 338 includes a
reflective coating on one or more of its inside surfaces, allowing sleeve 338 to direct more light
through adhesive-coated inside surfaces 334 of housing 318 and further enhance the insect
attracting and trapping efficiency and effectiveness. In some embodiments, sleeve 338 is replaced
by a coating configured to reduce the amount of light emitted by outside surface 368 of housing
318, or by the coating applied over a reflective coating, applied to outside surface 368 of housing
318, except for bottom surface 366.
         [00781 The materials of the trap portion 314 may also include insect attractants.        For
example, trap portion 314 may be impregnated with sorbitol, coleopteran attractants including
brevicomin,     dominicalure,   frontalin,  grandlure,  ipsdienol,   ipsenol,   japonilure,  lineatin,
megatomoic acid, multistriatin, oryctalure, sulcatol, and trunc-call, dipteran attractants including
ceralure, cue-lure, latilure, medlure, moguchun, muscalure, and trimedlure, homopteran
attractants including rescalure, lepidopteran attractants such as disparlure, straight chain
lepidopteran pheromones including codlelure, gossyplure, hexalure, litlure, looplure, orfralure,
and ostramone, and other insect attractants such as eugenol, methyl eugenol, and siglure, or other
substances to provide a scent that increases the insect-attracting efficiency of the insect trap. In
such embodiments, the insect attractant is integral to trap portion 314. Alternatively, the insect
attractants may be embedded in a separate piece that mounts on inside surface 334 of housing 318
or through opening 320 in housing 318. It is desirable for such attractants to be detectable by an
insect for approximately a 2 meter radius from trap 310.
         [0079] Figure 9 is a cross-sectional view through insect trap 310 showing the interiors of
base portion 312 and trap portion 314. In some embodiments, base portion 312 includes a circuit
board 340 having a programmable processor or chip (not shown) for executing commands,
electrically connected to conductive prongs 322, only one of which is shown, switch 316 and the
one or more LEDs 324. For clarity, however, not all of the electrical connections are shown.
Circuit board 340 may include electronic circuitry to receive ordinary household current from the
conductive prongs 322, respond to the position of switch 316 and provide power to illuminate the
                                                  24

1002031958
one or more LEDs 324. Circuit board 340 may include an energy stabilizer such as a full wave
rectifier filter circuit or any other circuit that provides steady voltage to one or more LEDs 324
when switch 316 is in a closed position, although it may also provide a varying voltage to one or
more LEDs 324 to provide a flickering light, which some species of insect find attractive. For
example, light flickering frequencies in the approximate range of 0.05Hz (e.g., to mimic the
breathing rate of mammals) to 250Hz (e.g., the highest flicker frequency known to attract male
houseflies), may be desirable and the lighting element may be configured to flicker within this
range. Circuit board 340 may provide power to one or more LEDs 324 to provide both UV and
visible light, although it could be configured to provide power to only one or more UV LEDs 324
or to only one or more visible light LEDs 324, or to provide variable power to produce
combinations of flickering UV and visible light. In some embodiments, circuit board 340 may be
configured to drive a transmitter or transceiver such as a piezoelectric speaker or other device that
may be mounted in base portion 312 to emit an insect-attracting sound.               For example, the
transmitter or transceiver may emit an insect-attracting sound having a frequency in the range of
approximately 0.5Hz (e.g., the heart rate of large mammals) to 240KHz (e.g., the highest
frequency detectable by insects).        In some embodiments, the frequency is in the range of
approximately 5Hz to 100KHz.            In some embodiments, the frequency is in the range of
approximately 35Hz to 50Khz. It is desirable for such insect-attracting sound to be detectable by
an insect for approximately a 2 meter radius from trap 310.           It is desirable for such insect
attracting sound to be undetectable by a human beyond approximately a 1 meter radius from trap
310.
         {0080] In the operation of insect trap 310, conductive prongs 322 are inserted into a wall
electrical socket and switch 316 may be moved to a closed position. The one or more LEDs 324
emit light, represented by arrows, preferably UV and visible light, which transmit through at least
one window 328 in base portion 312 and through bottom surface 366 of housing 318. In some
embodiments, light is not manipulated in base portion 312 and is emitted directly into trap portion
314.    A portion of the light continues within the enclosure, up one or more sides 372 of housing
318, and out through adhesive-coated inside surfaces 334. Another portion of the light continues
through bottom surface 366 of housing 318 and into the enclosure, where it illuminates adhesive
coated inside surfaces 334. A portion of the light entering housing 318 continues through
openings 320 and is emitted into the surrounding area where the trap is installed. Insects in the
area are attracted to the UV and/or visible light transmitted through openings 320 and fly or crawl
                                                    25

 1002031958
 into openings 320 and onto adhesive coated inside surfaces 334, where they become stuck in the
adhesive and are trapped. The user may observe trapped insects by looking through openings 320.
 When a sufficient number of insects have been trapped, the user may easily remove and discard
the entire used trap portion 314 without touching trapped insects, insect debris or adhesive, which
remain out of reach inside trap portion 314, and replace it with a new trap portion 314. The new
trap portion 314 may have fresh adhesive-coated inside surfaces 334, housing 318 has a clean
bottom surface 366 through which the UV and/or visible light is transmitted into trap portion 314,
and the transparent or translucent material of trap portion 314 has not been degraded by prolonged
exposure to UV light, thereby ensuring that insect trap 310 will continue to efficiently and
effectively attract and trap insects.
        [00811 It should be appreciated that a benefit of trap 310 is the manipulation of light
within trap portion 314.      In some embodiments, light manipulation occurs solely within trap
portion 314. Light manipulation may include reflection, refraction, polarization and/or diffusion
and is achieved by engaging with a manipulative element or surface (e.g., housing 318 and
adhesive-coated inside surfaces 334). In some embodiments, light manipulation produces an even
distribution of light on an adhesive surface or adhesive coating. In some embodiments, light is
manipulated to produce a predetermined pattern on the adhesive coating or within trap portion
314, for example, an even distribution, an even distribution with hot spots of higher intensity, hot
spot patterns, and/or combinations thereof.
        [00821 Any suitable adhesive material may be used as part of an adhesive surface for
trapping an insect.    In some embodiments, pressure sensitive adhesives such as acrylics, butyl
rubber, natural rubber, nitriles, silicones, styrene block copolymers, styrene-ethylene/propylene,
styrene-isoprene-styrene, vinyl ethers may be used. Generally, the thickness of such adhesives
will be in the range of approximately 0.01mm to 1mm. In some embodiments, the adhesive
thickness is in the range of approximately 0.05mm to 0.2mm, with a thickness of approximately
0.1mm being most often used.
        [00831 An insect trap 310 of this configuration may accommodate a variety of different
trap portions 314 that may be removably mounted to base portion 312, each trap portion 314
being uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of insects. For
example, the overall size and shape of trap portion 314, and the size, shape, and orientation of
openings 320 in housing 318 of the trap portion 314, may be uniquely configured to attract and
trap a specific species or multiple species of insects.   For example, in some embodiments, trap
                                                  26

1002031958
portion 314 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide, 20mm to 600mm high and 5mm to 150mm
deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 314 is approximately 20mm to 200mm wide, 20mm to
200mm high and 5mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 314 is approximately
20mm to 130mm wide, 20mm to 130mm high and 5mm to 50mm deep.
        [00841 In some embodiments, base portion 312 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide,
10mm to 150mm high and 10mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, base portion 312 is
20mm to 200mm wide, 10mm to 100mm high and 10mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments,
base portion 312 is 20mm to 130mm wide, 10mm to 50mm high and 10mm to 50mm deep.
        [00851 As provided herein, openings 320 may be a variety of shapes and/or sizes. For
example, openings 320 may be circular, square, rectangular, polygonal and/or elliptical in shape.
Alternatively, openings 320 may be slots having straight, curved or undulating shapes or patterns.
When openings 320 are circular, openings 320 may be approximately 0.5mm to 30mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 320 are approximately 0.5mm to 20mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 320 are approximately 0.5mm to 15mm in
diameter.    When openings 320 are slot shaped, openings 320 may be approximately 2mm to
30mm wide and 5mm to 500mm long.                 In some embodiments, slot openings 320 are
approximately 2mm to 20mm wide and 5mm to 200mm long.                 In some embodiments, slot
openings 320 are approximately 2mm to 15mm wide and 5mm to 100mm long.
        [00861 In some embodiments, openings 320 cover all or a portion of trap portion 314. For
example, openings 320 may cover a range of approximately 1% to 75% of the surface area of trap
portion 314. In some embodiments, openings 320 cover approximately 5% to 50% of the surface
area of trap portion 314. In some embodiments, openings 320 cover approximately 10% to 30%
of the surface area of trap portion 314.
        [0087] Although as shown in the embodiments of Figures 1-9, the trap portion mounts on
a top surface of the base portion, other configurations may also work effectively. For example,
Figures 10 and 11 show a fourth embodiment of an insect trap, where the trap portion mounts to
the front of the base portion.
        10088] Figure 10 is a front perspective view and Figure 11 is a rear perspective view, both
showing the fourth embodiment of an insect trap, indicated generally at 410. Base portion 412
mounts and is provided power by plugging into a household wall electrical socket. Alternatively,
base portion 412 may be configured to sit or hang wherever desired and receive power from
batteries (not shown) mounted in base portion 412. While an electrical socket and batteries have
                                                 27

1002031958
been described as providing power to trap 410, any suitable power source may be used. In some
embodiments, base portion 412 includes a circuit board (not shown) having a programmable
processor or chip (not shown) for executing commands.
        [00891 A lighting element such as one or more LEDs 414 may be mounted on a cross
shaped protrusion 416 protruding from front surface 418 of base portion 412. Alternatively,
LEDs 414 may form a protrusion themselves. While shown as a cross-shaped protrusion, the
mounting surface and/or LED 414 configuration may be any desired shape. Trap portion 420
includes a housing 450 of translucent or transparent material with one or more adhesive-coated
inside surfaces 422 and one or more openings 424. In some embodiments, the material and
thickness of housing 450 and the material and thickness of the adhesive are selected to transmit a
substantial proportion of the UV and visible light, for example greater than 60% of the light is
transmitted through housing 450 and the adhesive coating.        Trap portion 420 may include a
coating configured to reduce the amount of light emitted by the one or more outside surfaces 452,
on one or more outside surfaces 452 except for at the one or more openings 424 and at opening
426 in rear surface 428. As shown, opening 426 is a cross-shaped cavity 454, but may be any
desired shape. For example, cross-shaped protrusion 416 on front surface 418 of base portion 412
may engage with a recess in cross-shaped cavity 454 in rear surface 428 of trap portion 420 to
removably attach trap portion 420 to base portion 412.        In this configuration, therefore, trap
portion 414 mounts in front of base portion 412.
         [00901 In the operation of insect trap 410, base portion 412 is plugged into an electrical
wall socket and trap portion 420 is mounted in front of base portion 412. Light from one or more
LEDs 414, in UV and/or visible light wavelengths, may transmit into cross-shaped cavity 454 in
rear surface 428 of trap portion 420.      In some embodiments, light is not manipulated in base
portion 412 and is emitted directly into trap portion 414. A portion of the light may continue
within the translucent or transparent walls of the trap portion 420, diffusing the light and
spreading it evenly within trap portion 420 and through adhesive-coated inside surfaces 422.
Another portion of the light may continue through rear wall 456 of trap portion 420 and into
interior 430 of trap portion 420, where it illuminates adhesive-coated inside surfaces 422.        A
portion of the light entering trap portion 420 may continue through one or more openings 424 and
is emitted into the surrounding area where the trap 410 is installed. Insects in the area are
attracted to the UV and/or visible light transmitted through one or more openings 424, and fly or
crawl into one or more openings 424 and onto adhesive coated inside surfaces 422, where they
                                                 28

1002031958
become stuck in the adhesive and are trapped. The user may observe trapped insects by looking
through one or more openings 424. When a sufficient number of insects have been trapped, the
user may easily remove and discard the entire used trap portion 420 without touching trapped
insects, insect debris or adhesive, which remain out of reach inside trap portion 314, and replace it
with a new trap portion 420.     The new trap portion 420 may have fresh adhesive-coated inside
surfaces 422, a clean opening 426 in rear surface 428 through which the UV and/or visible light is
transmitted into trap portion 420, and the transparent or translucent material of trap portion 420
has not been degraded by prolonged exposure to UV light, thereby ensuring that insect trap 410
will continue to efficiently and effectively attract and trap insects.
         [0091] It should be appreciated that a benefit of trap 410 is the manipulation of light
within trap portion 420.     In some embodiments, light manipulation occurs solely within trap
portion 420. Light manipulation may include reflection, refraction, polarization and/or diffusion
and is achieved by engaging with a manipulative element or surface (e.g., trap portion 420 and
adhesive-coated inside surfaces 422). In some embodiments, light manipulation produces an even
distribution of light on an adhesive surface or adhesive coating. In some embodiments, light is
manipulated to produce a predetermined pattern on the adhesive coating or within trap portion
420, for example, an even distribution, an even distribution with hot spots of higher intensity, hot
spot patterns, and/or combinations thereof.
         [0092] Any suitable adhesive material may be used as part of an adhesive surface for
trapping an insect. In some embodiments, pressure sensitive adhesives such as acrylics, butyl
rubber, natural rubber, nitriles, silicones, styrene block copolymers, styrene-ethylene/propylene,
styrene-isoprene-styrene, vinyl ethers may be used. Generally, the thickness of such adhesives
will be in the range of approximately 0.01mm to Imm.             In some embodiments, the adhesive
thickness is in the range of approximately 0.05mm to 0.2mm, with a thickness of approximately
0.1mm being most often used.
         [0093] An insect trap. 410 of this configuration may accommodate a variety of different
trap portions 420 that may be removably mounted to base portion 412, each trap portion 420
being uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of insects. For
example, the overall size and shape of trap portion 420, and the size, shape, and orientation of
openings 424 in trap portion 420, may be uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species
or multiple species of insects.       For example, in some embodiments, trap portion 420 is
 approximately 20mm to 600mm wide, 20mm to 600mm high and 5mm to 150mm deep. In some
                                                   29

1002031958
embodiments, trap portion 420 is approximately 20mm to 200mm wide, 20mm to 200mm high
and 5mm to 80mm deep.         In some embodiments, trap portion 420 is approximately 20mm to
130mm wide, 20mm to 130mm high and 5mm to 50mm deep.
        [00941 In some embodiments, base portion 412 is approximately 10mm to 600mm wide,
10mm to 150mm high and 10mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, base portion 412 is
10mm to 200mm wide, 10mm to 100mm high and 10mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments,
base portion 412 is 10mm to 130mm wide, 10mm to 50mm high and 10mm to 50mm deep.
        [00951 As provided herein, openings 424 may be a variety of shapes and/or sizes. For
example, openings 424 may be circular, square, rectangular, polygonal and/or elliptical in shape.
Alternatively, openings 424 may be slots having straight, curved or undulating shapes or patterns.
When openings 424 are circular, openings 424 may be approximately 0.5mm to 30mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 424 are approximately 0.5mm to 20mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 424 are approximately 0.5mm to 15mm in
diameter.   When openings 424 are slot shaped, openings 424 may be approximately 2mm to
30mm wide and 5mm to 500mm long.                In some embodiments, slot openings 424 are
approximately 2mm to 20mm wide and 5mm to 200mm long.                In some embodiments, slot
openings 320 are approximately 2mm to 15mm wide and 5mm to 100mm long.
        [00961 In some embodiments, openings 424 cover all or a portion of trap portion 420. For
example, openings 424 may cover a range of approximately 1% to 75% of the surface area of trap
portion 420. In some embodiments, openings 424 cover approximately 5% to 50% of the surface
area of trap portion 420. In some embodiments, openings 424 cover approximately 10% to 30%
of the surface area of trap portion 420.
        [00971 Figure 12 is a front perspective view and Figure 13 is a rear perspective view of a
fifth embodiment of an insect trap, indicated generally at 510. Insect trap 510 includes a base
portion 512 and a removable trap portion 514. Base portion 512 includes a housing 516 with a
large opening 518 in top surface 560 to receive trap portion 514, one or more smaller openings
520 on front surface 562, and two electrically conductive prongs 522 on rear surface 564, adapted
to mount insect trap 510 to a wall and provide power to insect trap 510 by inserting into a
standard household electrical wall socket.     While an electrical socket has been described as
providing power to trap 510, any suitable power source may be used. Base portion 512 may be
injection molded of opaque plastic, although other materials and construction techniques could
also be used.
                                                 30

1002031958
         [0098] Figure 14 is a front perspective view of insect trap 510 showing removable trap
portion 514 partially removed from base portion 512. Trap portion 514 may include a housing
524 with one or more openings 526 and a tab 528 adapted for removing and replacing trap portion
514. Trap portion 514 may be removed by grasping tab 528 and lifting trap portion 514 out of
housing 516 of base portion 512. In some embodiments, openings 526 in trap portion 514 match
or correspond to openings 520 in base portion 512 with respect to size, shape, orientation and
location, so that they align when trap portion 514 is mounted into base portion 512.          In such
embodiments, trap portion 514 may be viewed as an inner sleeve or pocket and base portion 512
may be viewed as an outer sleeve, where the inner sleeve can be dropped or inserted into the outer
sleeve by a user.
         [00991 Figure 15 is a perspective view, partly broken away, of trap portion 514. Housing
524 includes inside surfaces 530 coated with translucent or transparent adhesive.          As shown,
housing 524 includes ribs 532 or other features that increase the adhesive-coated surface area,
produce alternating light/dark regions that some insect species find attractive, and enhance the
transmission of insect-attracting light into the interior of trap portion 514. In some embodiments,
trap portion 514 is thermoformed of translucent or transparent sheet plastic, in two separate
pieces, or in a 'clamshell'    design, in which the two sides are joined at one side and folded
together, although trap portion 514 could also be injection molded of translucent or transparent
plastic or constructed of translucent paper or of other materials.          In some embodiments, the
material and thickness of trap portion 514 and the material and thickness of the adhesive are
selected to transmit a substantial proportion of the UV and visible light, for example greater than
60% of the light is transmitted through trap portion 514 and the adhesive coating. The materials
of the trap portion 514 may also include insect attractants. For example, the materials of the trap
portion 514 may be impregnated with, or coated with, sorbitol, coleopteran attractants including
brevicomin,     dominicalure,   frontalin,  grandlure,    ipsdienol,    ipsenol, japonilure, lineatin,
megatomoic acid, multistriatin, oryctalure, sulcatol, and trunc-call, dipteran attractants including
ceralure,   cue-lure, latilure, medlure, moguchun, muscalure,            and trimedlure, homopteran
attractants including rescalure, lepidopteran attractants such as disparlure, straight chain
lepidopteran pheromones including codlelure, gossyplure, hexalure, litlure, looplure, orfralure,
and ostramone, and other insect attractants such as eugenol, methyl eugenol, and siglure, or any
other substance that may provide a scent or other attractant that increases the insect-attracting
efficiency of the insect trap. In such embodiments, the insect attractant is integral to trap portion
                                                   31

1002031958
514. Alternatively, the insect attractants may be embedded in a separate piece that mounts on an
inside surface 530 of housing 524 or through an opening 526 in housing 524. It is desirable for
such attractants to be detectable by an insect for approximately a 2 meter radius from trap 510.
         [01001 Figure 16 is a cross-sectional view through insect trap 510 showing the interiors of
base portion 512 and trap portion 514. In some embodiments, base portion 512 includes a circuit
board 534 having a programmable processor or chip (not shown) for executing commands,
electrically connected to conductive prongs 522, only one of which is shown, and a lighting
element such as one or more LEDs 536, one that emits ultraviolet (UV) light and/or one that emits
visible light (e.g., blue light). For clarity, not all of the electrical connections are shown. The
circuit board 534 may include electronic circuitry to receive any household current from
conductive prongs 522 and provide power to illuminate the one or more LEDs 536. Alternatively,
circuit board 534 may be configured to receive power from batteries (not shown) mounted in base
portion 512. While an electrical socket and batteries have been described as providing power to
trap 510, any suitable power source may be used. Circuit board 534 may include an energy
stabilizer such as a full wave rectifier circuit or any other circuit to provide steady voltage to the
one or more LEDs 536, although it could also provide a varying voltage to the one or more LEDs
536 to provide a flickering light, which some species of insect find attractive. For example, light
flickering frequencies in the approximate range of 0.05Hz (e.g., to mimic the breathing rate of
mammals) to 270Hz (e.g., the highest flicker frequency known to attract male houseflies), may be
desirable and the lighting element may be configured to flicker within this range. Circuit board
534 may provide power to one or more LEDs 536 to provide both UV and visible light, although
it could be configured to provide power to only one or more UV LEDs 536 or to only one or more
visible light LEDs 536, or to provide variable power to produce combinations of flickering UV
and visible light. Circuit board 534 may also be configured to drive a transmitter or transceiver
such as a piezoelectric speaker or other device that may be mounted in base portion 512 to emit an
insect-attracting sound. For example, the transmitter or transceiver may emit an insect-attracting
sound having a frequency in the range of approximately 0.5Hz (e.g., the heart rate of large
mammals) to 240KHz (e.g., the highest frequency detectable by insects). In some embodiments,
the frequency is in the range of approximately 5Hz to 100KHz.              In some embodiments, the
frequency is in the range of approximately 35Hz to 50Khz.             It is desirable for such insect
attracting sound to be detectable by an insect for approximately a 2 meter radius from trap 510. It
                                                   32

1002031958
is desirable for such insect-attracting sound to be undetectable by a human beyond approximately
a 1 meter radius from trap 510.
         [01011 In the operation of insect trap 510, conductive prongs 522 are inserted into a wall
electrical socket. One or more LEDs 536 emit light, represented by arrows, preferably UV and
visible light, which transmit though rear surface 538 of housing 524 of trap portion 514. In some
embodiments, light is not manipulated in base portion 512 and is emitted directly into trap portion
514. A portion of the light continues within the enclosure, up one or more sides 572 of housing
524, and out through adhesive-coated inside surfaces 530.          Another portion of the light may
continue through the wall of housing 524 and into the enclosure, where it illuminates the
adhesive-coated inside surfaces 530. A portion of the light entering the enclosure may continue
through openings 526 in trap portion 514 and corresponding openings 520 in base portion and be
emitted into the area where the insect trap 510 is installed. Insects in the area are attracted to the
UV and/or visible light transmitted through openings 520 in base portion 512, and fly or crawl
into openings 520 and onto the adhesive-coated inside surfaces 530 of trap portion 514, where
they become stuck in the adhesive and are trapped. The user may observe trapped insects by
looking through openings 520 and 526. When a sufficient number of insects have been trapped,
the user may easily remove and discard the entire used trap portion 514 without touching trapped
insects, insect debris or adhesive, which remain out of reach inside trap portion 514, and replace it
with a new trap portion 514. The new trap portion 514 may include fresh adhesive coating its
inside surfaces 530, housing 524 has a clean rear surface 538, through which the UV and visible
light is transmitted into trap portion 514, and the transparent or translucent material of trap portion
514 has not been degraded by prolonged exposure to UV light, thereby ensuring that insect trap
510 will continue to efficiently and effectively attract and trap insects.
         [01021 It should be appreciated that a benefit of trap 510 is the manipulation of light
within trap portion 514.      In some embodiments, light manipulation occurs solely within trap
portion 514. Light manipulation may include reflection, refraction, polarization and/or diffusion
 and is achieved by engaging with a manipulative element or surface (e.g., housing 516 and
 adhesive-coated inside surfaces 530). In some embodiments, light manipulation produces an even
 distribution of light on an adhesive surface or adhesive coating. In some embodiments, light is
manipulated to produce a predetermined pattern on the adhesive coating or within trap portion
 514, for example, an even distribution, an even distribution with hot spots of higher intensity, hot
 spot patterns, and/or combinations thereof.
                                                   33

1002031958
        [0103] Any suitable adhesive material may be used as part of an adhesive surface for
trapping an insect. In some embodiments, pressure sensitive adhesives such as acrylics, butyl
rubber, natural rubber, nitriles, silicones, styrene block copolymers, styrene-ethylene/propylene,
styrene-isoprene-styrene, vinyl ethers may be used. Generally, the thickness of such adhesives
will be in the range of approximately 0.01mm to 1mm.          In some embodiments, the adhesive
thickness is in the range of approximately 0.05mm to 0.2mm, with a thickness of approximately
0.1mm being most often used.
        [01041 An insect trap 510 of this configuration may accommodate a variety of different
trap portions 514 that may be removably mounted to base portion 512, each trap portion 514
being uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of insects. For
example, the overall size and shape of trap portion 514, and the size, shape, and orientation of
openings 526 in housing 524 of trap portion 514, may be uniquely configured to attract and trap a
specific species or multiple species of insects. For example, in some embodiments, trap portion
514 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide, 20mm to 600mm high and 5mm to 150mm deep. In
some embodiments, trap portion 514 is approximately 20mm to 200mm wide, 20mm to 200mm
high and 5mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 514 is approximately 20mm to
130mm wide, 20mm to 130mm high and 5mm to 50mm deep.
        [0105] In some embodiments, base portion 512 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide,
10mm to 150mm high and 10mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, base portion 512 is
20mm to 200mm wide, 10mm to 100mm high and 10mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments,
base portion 512 is 20mm to 130mm wide, 10mm to 50mm high and 10mm to 50mm deep.
        [0106] As provided herein, openings 526 and openings 520 may be a variety of shapes
and/or sizes. For example, openings 526 and openings 520 may be circular, square, rectangular,
polygonal and/or elliptical in shape. Alternatively, openings 526 and openings 520 may be slots
having straight, curved or undulating shapes or patterns. When openings 526 and openings 520
are circular, openings 526 and openings 520 may be approximately 0.5mm to 30mm in diameter.
In some embodiments, circular openings 526 and circular openings 520 are approximately 0.5mm
to 20mm in diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 526 and circular openings 520 are
approximately 0.5mm to 15mm in diameter.           When openings 526 and openings 520 are slot
shaped, openings 526 and openings 526 may be approximately 2mm to 30mm wide and 5mm to
500mm long. In some embodiments, slot openings 526 and slot openings 520 are approximately
                                                  34

1002031958
2mm to 20mm wide and 5mm to 200mm long. In some embodiments, slot openings 526 and slot
openings 520 are approximately 2mm to 15mm wide and 5mm to 100mm long.
         [0107] In some embodiments, openings 526 cover all or a portion of trap portion 514. For
example, openings 526 may cover a range of approximately 1%to 75% of the surface area of trap
portion 514. In some embodiments, openings 526 cover approximately 5% to 50% of the surface
area of trap portion 514. In some embodiments, openings 526 cover approximately 10% to 30%
of the surface area of trap portion 514.
         [01081 Figure 17 shows an exploded view of a sixth embodiment of an insect trap,
indicated generally at 610.      Insect trap 610 includes a base portion 612 and a removable trap
portion 614. Trap portion 614 is shown removed from base portion 612 in this view. In some
embodiments, base portion 612 includes a switch 616, configurable to enable insect trap 610 to be
turned on or off by closing or opening switch 616, as desired by the user. Alternatively, switch
616 may be configured to control other features such as light intensity, combinations of light
wavelengths, different modes or frequencies of flickering light, an automatic setting that turns on
when the room gets dark, or a remote control setting, for example. Trap portion 614 includes a
front housing 618 with at least one opening 620.
        [0109] Protruding from a rear surface 670 (shown in Figure 18) of base portion 612 are
two electrically conductive prongs 622, only one of which is shown, adapted to mount insect trap
610 to a wall and provide power to insect trap 610 by inserting prongs 622 into a standard
household electrical wall socket. Alternatively, base portion 612 may be configured to sit or hang
wherever desired and receive power from batteries (not shown) mounted in base portion 612.
While an electrical socket and batteries have been described as providing power to trap 610, any
suitable power source may be used. Base portion 612 includes a lighting element such as one or
more LEDs 624 and a rear housing 626 which includes a reflective-coated inside surface 628. In
some embodiments, the LEDs include one that emits ultraviolet (UV) light and one that emits
visible light (e.g., blue light). In some embodiments, the lighting element emits a combination of
wavelengths to mimic sunlight. In some embodiments, the material and surface finish of rear
housing 626 may be configured to reflect UV and/or visible light without a reflective coating. As
shown, base portion 612 includes a transparent or translucent window 630, shown partially cut
away to reveal the LEDs 624.         Transparent or translucent window 630 protects the reflective
coated inside surface 628 of rear housing 626 and one or more LEDs 624 from dust and insect
debris and allows base portion 612 to be easily cleaned. Transparent or translucent window 630
                                                   35

1002031958
may be attached at its perimeter (not shown) to rear housing 626 by any suitable manufacturing
technique such as gluing or ultrasonic welding. In some embodiments, transparent or translucent
window 630 is removably attached to rear housing 626. Base portion 612 includes one or more
openings 632.     In some embodiments, on perimeter 672 of top surface 634 of base 612 is an
upwardly directed rim or protrusions 636.
        [0110] Figure 18 shows a cross-sectional view of the of insect trap 610, with removable
trap portion 614 mounted on base portion 612, and showing the interiors of base portion 612 and
removable trap portion 614. Removable trap portion 614 includes front housing 618 with the at
least one opening 620 and a back plate 638, which may be constructed of transparent or
translucent material and coated with a transparent or translucent adhesive 640 on a front surface
642. In some embodiments, the material and thickness of back plate 638 and the material and
thickness of the adhesive 640 are selected to transmit a substantial proportion of the UV and / or
visible light, for example greater than 60% of the light is transmitted through back plate 638 and
adhesive 640. Front housing 618 of trap portion 614 and rear housing 626 of base portion 612
may be constructed from any suitable material, including a thermoformed opaque plastic material
or other opaque, transparent or translucent materials such as paper, paperboard, cardboard or
paper pulp. In some embodiments, front housing 618 and rear housing 626 are constructed by
injection molding or by other suitable manufacturing techniques.          Back plate 638 may be
substantially planar, although it may be formed into a convex, concave or saddle-shaped contour,
or a combination of contours to optimize the even distribution of light. Alternatively, back plate
638 may have ribs or other features that increase the adhesive-coated surface area, produce
alternating light/dark regions that some insect species find attractive, and enhance the
transmission of insect-attracting light into trap portion 614.
        [0111] In some embodiments, front housing 618 is be coated with transparent, translucent
or opaque adhesive on an inside surface to provide additional insect trapping efficiency and
capacity.    In addition, front housing 618 may also have a reflective coating underneath the
adhesive coating on its inside surface to enhance its attraction to insects and further improve the
insect trapping efficiency and effectiveness. Front housing 618 and back plate 638 may be joined
together at their perimeters with adhesive, although they may also be joined by other commonly
used packaging assembly techniques such as ultrasonic welding or RF sealing, or any other
suitable assembly method. The materials of trap portion 614 may include an insect attractant. For
example, the materials of trap portion 614 may be impregnated with sorbitol, coleopteran
                                                   36

1002031958
attractants including brevicomin, dominicalure, frontalin, grandlure, ipsdienol, ipsenol, japonilure,
lineatin, megatomoic acid, multistriatin, oryctalure, sulcatol, and trunc-call, dipteran attractants
including ceralure, cue-lure, latilure, medlure, moguchun, muscalure, and trimedlure, homopteran
attractants including rescalure,      lepidopteran attractants such as disparlure, straight chain
lepidopteran pheromones including codlelure, gossyplure, hexalure, litlure, looplure, orfralure,
and ostramone, and other insect attractants such as eugenol, methyl eugenol, and siglure, or other
substances to provide a scent that further increases the insect-attracting efficiency of the insect
trap. In such embodiments, the insect attractant is integral to trap portion 614. Alternatively, the
insect attractants may be embedded in a separate piece that mounts on an inside surface of front
housing 618 or through an opening 620 in front housing 618 or on front surface 642 of back plate
638. It is desirable for such attractants to be detectable by an insect for approximately a 2 meter
radius from trap 610.
         [01121 As shown, front housing 618 and back plate 638 form a front enclosure 644 in trap
portion 614, and rear housing 626 and window 630 form a rear enclosure 646 in base portion 612.
In some embodiments, base portion 612 includes a circuit board 648 having a programmable
processor or chip (not shown) for executing commands, electrically connected to conductive
prongs 622, switch 616 and one or more LEDs 624. For clarity, however, not all of the electrical
connections are shown. Circuit board 648 may include electronic circuitry to receive ordinary
household current from conductive prongs 622, respond to the position of switch 616 and provide
power to illuminate one or more LEDs 624. Circuit board 648 may include an energy stabilizer
such as a full wave rectifier circuit or any other circuit that provides steady voltage to one or more
LEDs 624 when switch 616 is in a closed position, although it may also provide a varying voltage
to one or more LEDs 624 to provide a flickering light, which some species of insects find
attractive. For example, light flickering frequencies in the approximate range of 0.05Hz (e.g., to
mimic the breathing rate of large mammals) to 250Hz (e.g., the highest flicker frequency known
to attract male houseflies), may be desirable and the lighting element may be configured to flicker
within this range. Circuit board 648 may provide power to one or more LEDs 624 to provide both
UV and visible light, although it may be configured to provide power to only one or more UV
LEDs 624 or to only one or more visible light LEDs 624, or to provide variable power to produce
combinations of flickering UV and visible light. Circuit board 648 may also be configured to
drive a transmitter or transceiver such as a piezoelectric speaker or other device that may be
mounted in the base portion 612 to emit an insect-attracting sound. For example, the transmitter
                                                   37

1002031958
or transceiver may emit an insect-attracting sound having a frequency in the range of
approximately 0.5Hz (e.g., the heart rate of large mammals) to 240KHz (e.g., the highest
frequency detectable by insects).      In some embodiments, the frequency is in the range of
approximately 5Hz to 100KHz.          In some embodiments, the frequency is in the range of
approximately 35Hz to 50Khz. It is desirable for such insect-attracting sound to be detectable by
an insect for approximately a 2 meter radius from trap 610.         It is desirable for such insect
attracting sound to be undetectable by a human beyond approximately a 1 meter radius from trap
610.
         [0113] As shown, upward protrusions or rim 636 on top surface 634 of base portion 612
engage with trap portion 614 to secure it in place during use, although any other form of
attachment may be substituted that allows trap portion 614 to be securely but removably mounted
to base portion 612.
         [0114] In the operation of insect trap 610, conductive prongs 622 are inserted into a wall
electrical socket, and switch 616 is moved to a closed position. One or more LEDs 624 emit light,
preferably UV and visible light, represented by arrows, which transmit through at least one
opening 632 in base portion 612, into rear enclosure 646, and onto reflective-coated inside surface
628 of rear housing 626 and rear surface 650 of window 630. In some embodiments, light is not
manipulated in base portion 612 and is emitted directly into trap portion 614. Reflective-coated
inside surface 628 of rear housing 626 may include a concave shape and may be configured to
reflect the UV and visible light from one or more LEDs 624 to distribute the light evenly onto rear
surface 650 of window 630, although inside surface 628 of rear housing 626 may have a convex
shape or a saddle shape or a combination of shapes, or may also have ribs or other features to
more evenly distribute the light. Alternatively, an optical enhancer such as an anamorphic lens
(not shown) or any other lens or combination of lenses configured to distribute UV and/or visible
light (e.g., evenly, according to specific patterns, at a focal point, etc.) onto rear surface 650 of
window 630, may be mounted to base portion 612 at or near opening 632 in base portion 612, and
may replace or augment the role of reflective-coated inside surface 628 of rear housing 626.
Alternatively, the UV and/or visible light from one or more LEDs 624 may directly strike rear
surface 650 of window 630 at an oblique angle (e.g., an acute angle from approximately 0' to 90')
and be spread across and through window 630 of base portion 612 and onto back plate 638 of trap
portion 614, and may replace or augment the role of reflective-coated inside surface 628 of rear
housing 626 or of the lens or lenses mounted to base portion 612. The light may transmit through
                                                  38

1002031958
back plate 638 and adhesive coating 640 on front surface 642, and into front enclosure 644. The
light may be further evenly distributed by light-diffusing properties of window 630 of base
portion 612, back plate 638 of trap portion 614, adhesive coating 640 on front surface 642 of back
plate 638, or any combination of window 630, back plate 638 and adhesive coating 640. In some
embodiments, a portion of the light entering front enclosure 644 continues through one or more
openings 620 in front housing 618 and is emitted into the area where the trap is installed. Insects
may be attracted to the UV and/or visible light transmitted through adhesive coating 640 and/or
through one or more openings 620 in front housing 618, and fly or crawl into one or more
openings 620 and onto adhesive coating 640, where they become trapped in the adhesive. The
user may observe trapped insects by looking through one or more openings 620 in front housing
618. When a sufficient number of insects have been trapped, the user may easily remove and
discard the entire used trap portion 614 without touching trapped insects, insect debris or
adhesive, which remain out of reach inside trap portion 614, and replace it with a new trap portion
614. The new trap portion 614 may have fresh adhesive-coated surfaces, ensuring that insect trap
610 will continue to efficiently and effectively attract and trap insects.
        [0115] It should be appreciated that a benefit of trap 610 is the manipulation of light
within trap portion 614.     In some embodiments, light manipulation occurs solely within trap
portion 614. Light manipulation may include reflection, refraction, polarization and/or diffusion
and is achieved by engaging with a manipulative element or surface (e.g., inside surface 628,
window 630, back plate 638 and adhesive coating 640).                  In some embodiments, light
manipulation produces an even distribution of light on an adhesive surface or adhesive coating
640.   In some embodiments, light is manipulated to produce a predetermined pattern on the
adhesive coating 640 or within trap portion 614, for example, an even distribution, an even
distribution with hot spots of higher intensity, hot spot patterns, and/or combinations thereof.
        f0116] Any suitable adhesive material may be used as part of an adhesive surface for
trapping an insect.   In some embodiments, pressure sensitive adhesives such as acrylics, butyl
rubber, natural rubber, nitriles, silicones, styrene block copolymers, styrene-ethylene/propylene,
styrene-isoprene-styrene, vinyl ethers may be used. Generally, the thickness of such adhesives
will be in the range of approximately 0.0 1mm to 1mm.           In some embodiments, the adhesive
thickness is in the range of approximately 0.05mm to 0.2mm, with a thickness of approximately
0.1mm being most often used.
                                                   39

1002031958
        [0117] An insect trap 610 of this configuration may accommodate a variety of different
trap portions 614 that may be removably mounted to base portion 612, each trap portion 614
being uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of insects. For
example, the overall size and shape of trap portion 614, and the size, shape, and orientation of
openings 620 in front housing 618 of trap portion 614, may be uniquely configured to attract and
trap a specific species or multiple species of insects. For example, in some embodiments, trap
portion 614 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide, 20mm to 600mm high and 5mm to 150mm
deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 614 is approximately 20mm to 200mm wide, 20mm to
200mm high and 5mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 614 is approximately
20mm to 130mm wide, 20mm to 130mm high and 5mm to 50mm deep.
        [01181 In some embodiments, base portion 612 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide,
 10mm to 150mm high and 10mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, base portion 612 is
20mm to 200mm wide, 10mm to 100mm high and 10mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments,
base portion 612 is 20mm to 130mm wide, 10mm to 50mm high and 10mm to 50mm deep.
        [01191 As provided herein, openings 620 may be a variety of shapes and/or sizes. For
example, openings 620 may be circular, square, rectangular, polygonal and/or elliptical in shape.
Alternatively, openings 620 may be slots having straight, curved or undulating shapes or patterns.
When openings 620 are circular, openings 620 may be approximately 0.5mm to 30mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 620 are approximately 0.5mm to 20mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 620 are approximately 0.5mm to 15mm in
diameter.   When openings 620 are slot shaped, openings 620 may be approximately 2mm to
30mm wide and 5mm to 500mm long.                In some embodiments, slot openings 620 are
approximately 2mm to 20mm wide and 5mm to 200mm long.                 In some embodiments, slot
openings 120 are approximately 2mm to 15mm wide and 5mm to 100mm long.
        [0120] In some embodiments, openings 620 cover all or a portion of trap portion 614. For
example, openings 620 may cover a range of approximately 1% to 75% of the surface area of trap
portion 614. In some embodiments, openings 620 cover approximately 5% to 50% of the surface
area of trap portion 614. In some embodiments, openings 620 cover approximately 10% to 30%
of the surface area of trap portion 614.
        [0121] Figure 19 shows a cross-sectional view of a seventh embodiment of an insect trap,
indicated generally at 710, and Figure 20 is an enlarged view of a portion of Figure 19. Insect
trap 710 includes a base portion 712 and a removable trap portion 714. As shown, base portion
                                                 40

1002031958
712 includes a switch 716, configurable to enable insect trap 710 to be turned on or off by closing
or opening switch 716, as desired by the user. Alternatively, switch 716 may be configured to
control other features such as light intensity, combinations of light wavelengths, different modes
or frequencies of flickering light, an automatic setting that turns on when the room gets dark, or a
remote control setting, for example. Protruding from a rear surface 770 of base portion 712 are
two electrically conductive prongs 718 (only one of which is shown in this view) adapted to
mount insect trap 710 to a wall and provide power to insect trap 710 by inserting prongs 718 into
a standard household electrical wall socket. Alternatively, base portion 712 may be configured to
sit or hang wherever desired and receive power from batteries (not shown) mounted in base
portion 712. While an electrical socket and batteries have been described as providing power to
trap 710, any suitable power source may be used. In some embodiments, a slot 722 is located in a
top surface 720 of base portion 712, and upwardly directed protrusions 724 are located on a
perimeter of top surface 720.
        [01221 Trap portion 714 includes a front housing 726 with at least one opening 728, a
divider 730, a rear housing 736, a lighting element such as one or more LEDs 740, and electrical
trap contacts 742.     In some embodiments, divider 730 is constructed from transparent or
translucent material and is coated with a transparent or translucent adhesive 732 on a front surface
734. In some embodiments, the material and thickness of the divider 730 and the material and
thickness of the adhesive 732 are selected to transmit a substantial proportion of the UV and/or
visible light, for example greater than 60% of the light is transmitted through divider 730 and
adhesive 732. In some embodiments, LEDs 740 include one that emits ultraviolet (UV) light and
one that emits visible light (e.g., blue light). In some embodiments, the lighting element emits a
combination of wavelengths to mimic sunlight. As shown, there are two electrical trap contacts
742 for each of the one or more LEDs 740. Thus, each pair of trap contacts 742 are electrically
connected to their respective LED 740.
        [01231 In some embodiments, rear housing 736 includes a reflective-coated inside surface
738.   The material and surface finish of rear housing 736 may alternatively be configured to
reflect UV and/or visible light without a reflective coating. Front housing 726 and rear housing
736 may be constructed from any suitable material, including a thermoformed opaque plastic
material or other opaque, transparent or translucent materials such as paper, paperboard,
cardboard or paper pulp.     In some embodiments, front housing 726 and rear housing 736 are
constructed by injection molding or by other suitable manufacturing techniques.
                                                   41

 1002031958
         [0124] As shown, divider 730 may be substantially planar, although it may be formed into
a convex, concave or saddle-shaped contour, or a combination of contours to optimize the even
distribution of light. Alternatively, divider 730 may include ribs or other features that increase the
adhesive-coated surface area, produce alternating light/dark regions that some insect species find
attractive, and enhance the transmission of insect-attracting light into interior of trap portion 714.
In some embodiments, front housing 726 is coated with transparent, translucent or opaque
adhesive on an inside surface to provide additional insect trapping efficiency and capacity. In
addition, front housing 726 may include a reflective coating underneath the adhesive coating on
an inside surface to enhance its attraction to insects and further improve the insect trapping
efficiency and effectiveness. Front housing 726, divider 730 and rear housing 736 may be joined
together at their perimeters with adhesive, although they may also be joined by other commonly
used packaging assembly techniques such as ultrasonic welding or RF sealing, or any other
suitable assembly method.
         [01251 The materials of trap portion 714 may also include insect attractants. For example,
trap portion 714 may be impregnated with be impregnated with sorbitol, coleopteran attractants
including brevicomin, dominicalure, frontalin, grandlure, ipsdienol, ipsenol, japonilure, lineatin,
megatomoic acid, multistriatin, oryctalure, sulcatol, and trunc-call, dipteran attractants including
ceralure,   cue-lure,  latilure, medlure,   moguchun,     muscalure,  and   trimedlure,   homopteran
attractants including rescalure, lepidopteran      attractants such as disparlure, straight chain
lepidopteran pheromones including codlelure, gossyplure, hexalure, litlure, looplure, orfralure,
and ostramone, and other insect attractants such as eugenol, methyl eugenol, and siglure, or other
substances to provide a scent that further increases the insect-attracting efficiency of the insect
trap. In such embodiments, the insect attractant is integral to trap portion 714. Alternatively, the
insect attractants may be embedded in a separate piece that mounts on an inside surface of front
housing 726 or through an opening 728 in front housing 726 or on front surface 734 of divider
730. It is desirable for such attractants to be detectable by an insect for approximately a 2 meter
radius from trap 710. As shown, divider 730 separates trap portion 714 into a front enclosure 744
and a rear enclosure 746.
         [0126] In some embodiments, base portion 712 includes a circuit board 748 having a
programmable processor or chip (not shown) for executing commands, electrically connected to
conductive prongs 718, switch 716, and electrical base contacts 750. For clarity, however, not all
of the electrical connections are shown. While two base contacts 750 in the base portion 712 for
                                                  42

1002031958
each of the LEDs 740 in the trap portion 714 are shown, any suitable number may be used. Base
contacts 750 may be configured to provide an electrical connection with trap contacts 742 when
trap portion 714 is removably mounted to base portion 712.           Circuit board 748 may include
electronic circuitry to receive ordinary household current from conductive prongs 718, respond to
the position of switch 716 and provide power to base contacts 750, which, in turn, provide power
to trap contacts 742 and illuminate LEDs 740 in trap portion 714 when trap portion 714 is
mounted to base portion 712.        In some embodiments, circuit board 748 includes an energy
stabilizer such as a full wave rectifier circuit or any other circuit that provides steady voltage to
one or more LEDs 740 when switch 716 is in a closed position and trap portion 714 is mounted to
base portion 712, although it may also provide a varying voltage to one or more LEDs 740 to
provide a flickering light, which some species of insects find attractive.        For example, light
flickering frequencies in the approximate range of 0.05Hz (e.g., to mimic the breathing rate of
large mammals) to 250Hz (e.g., the highest flicker frequency known to attract male houseflies),
may be desirable and the lighting element may be configured to flicker within this range. Circuit
board 748 may provide power to one or more LEDs 740 to provide both UV and visible light,
although it may be configured to provide power to only one or more UV LEDs 740 or to only one
or more visible light LEDs 740, or to provide variable power to produce combinations of
flickering UV and visible light. Circuit board 748 may also be configured to drive a transmitter or
transceiver such as a piezoelectric speaker or other device that may be mounted in base portion
712 to emit an insect-attracting sound. For example, the transmitter or transceiver may emit an
 insect-attracting sound having a frequency in the range of approximately 0.5Hz (e.g., the heart
rate of large mammals) to 240KHz (e.g., the highest frequency detectable by insects). In some
embodiments, the frequency is in the range of approximately 5Hz to 100KHz.                  In some
 embodiments, the frequency is in the range of approximately 35Hz to 50Khz. It is desirable for
 such insect-attracting sound to be detectable by an insect for approximately a 2 meter radius from
trap 710. It is desirable for such insect-attracting sound to be undetectable by a human beyond
 approximately a 1 meter radius from trap 710.
         [0127] In some embodiments, base portion 712 includes a slot 722 and protrusions 724 in
top surface 720, which are configured to engage with trap portion 714 to secure it in place during
 use, although any other form of attachment may be substituted that allows trap portion 714 to be
 securely but removably mounted to base portion 712.
                                                   43

1002031958
         [0128] In the operation of insect trap insect trap 710, conductive prongs 718 are inserted
into a wall electrical socket, switch 716 is moved to a closed position, and trap portion 714 is
mounted to base portion 712.         One or more LEDs 740 emit light, represented by arrows,
preferably UV and visible light, which transmit light into rear enclosure 746, and onto reflective
coated inside surface 738 of rear housing 736 and rear surface 752 of divider 730. In some
embodiments, light is not manipulated in base portion 712 and is emitted directly into trap portion
714.    Reflective-coated inside surface 738 of rear housing 736 may be a concave shape and
configured to reflect UV and/or visible light from one or more LEDs 740 to distribute the light
evenly onto rear surface 752 of divider 730, although the shape of inside surface 738 of rear
housing 736 may have a convex shape or a saddle shape or a combination of shapes, or may also
have ribs (not shown) or other features to more evenly distribute the light. Alternatively, an
optical enhancer such as an anamorphic lens (not shown) or any other lens or combination of
lenses configured to distribute UV and/or visible light (e.g., evenly, according to specific patterns,
at a focal point, etc.) onto rear surface 752 of divider 730, may be mounted to rear housing 736
proximate to or above LEDs 740 or may be mounted to LEDs 740, and may replace or augment
the role of reflective-coated inside surface 738 of rear housing 736. Alternatively, the UV and/or
visible light from one or more LEDs 740 may directly strike the rear surface 752 of divider 730 at
an oblique angle (e.g., an acute angle from approximately 0' to 90') and may be spread across
divider 730, and may replace or augment the role of reflective-coated inside surface 738 of rear
housing 736, or of the lens or lenses mounted to rear housing 736 or to LEDs 740. The light may
transmit through divider 730 and adhesive coating 732 on front surface 734, and into front
enclosure 744. The light may be further evenly distributed by the light-diffusing properties of
divider 730, adhesive coating 732 on front surface 734, or both. A portion of the light entering
front enclosure 744 continues through one or more openings 728 in front housing 726 and is
emitted into the area where trap 710 is installed. Insects may be attracted to the UV and/or visible
light transmitted through adhesive coating 732 and/or through one or more openings 728 in front
housing 726, and fly or crawl into one or more openings 728 and onto adhesive coating 732,
where they become trapped in the adhesive. The user may observe trapped insects by looking
through one or more openings 728 in front housing 726. When a sufficient number of insects
have been trapped, the user may easily remove and discard the entire used trap portion 714
without touching trapped insects, insect debris or adhesive, which remain out of reach inside trap
portion 714, and replace it with a new trap portion 714. The new trap portion 714 may have fresh
                                                  44

1002031958
adhesive-coated surfaces and light-directing surfaces, ensuring that the insect trap 710 will
continue to efficiently and effectively attract and trap insects.
        [0129] It should be appreciated that a benefit of trap 710 is the manipulation of light
within trap portion 714.     In some embodiments, light manipulation occurs solely within trap
portion 714. Light manipulation may include reflection, refraction, polarization and/or diffusion
and is achieved by engaging with a manipulative element or surface (e.g., inside surface 738,
divider 730 and adhesive coating 732). In some embodiments, light manipulation produces an
even distribution of light on an adhesive surface or adhesive coating. In some embodiments, light
is manipulated to produce a predetermined pattern on the adhesive coating or within trap portion
714, for example, an even distribution, an even distribution with hot spots of higher intensity, hot
spot patterns, and/or combinations thereof.
        [0130] Any suitable adhesive material may be used as part of an adhesive surface for
trapping an insect.    In some embodiments, pressure sensitive adhesives such as acrylics, butyl
rubber, natural rubber, nitriles, silicones, styrene block copolymers, styrene-ethylene/propylene,
styrene-isoprene-styrene, vinyl ethers may be used. Generally, the thickness of such adhesives
will be in the range of approximately 0.01mm to 1mm.              In some embodiments, the adhesive
thickness is in the range of approximately 0.05mm to 0.2mm, with a thickness of approximately
0.1mm being most often used.
        [0131] An insect trap 710 of this configuration may accommodate a variety of different
trap portions 714 that may be removably mounted to base portion 712, each trap portion 714
being uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of insects. For
example, the overall size and shape of trap portion 714, the size, shape, and orientation of
openings 728 in front housing 726 of trap portion 714, and the wavelength and intensity of the
LEDs 740 may be uniquely configured to attract and trap a specific species or multiple species of
insects. For example, in some embodiments, trap portion 714 is approximately 20mm to 600mm
wide, 20mm to 600mm high and 5mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, trap portion 714 is
approximately 20mm to 200mm wide, 20mm to 200mm high and 5mm to 80mm deep. In some
embodiments, trap portion 714 is approximately 20mm to 130mm wide, 20mm to 130mm high
and 5mm to 50mm deep.
        [0132] In some embodiments, base portion 712 is approximately 20mm to 600mm wide,
 10mm to 150mm high and 10mm to 150mm deep. In some embodiments, base portion 712 is
                                                   45

1002031958
20mm to 200mm wide, 10mm to 100mm high and 10mm to 80mm deep. In some embodiments,
base portion 712 is 20mm to 130mm wide, 10mm to 50mm high and 10mm to 50mm deep.
         [01331 As provided herein, openings 728 may be a variety of shapes and/or sizes. For
example, openings 728 may be circular, square, rectangular, polygonal and/or elliptical in shape.
Alternatively, openings 728 may be slots having straight, curved or undulating shapes or patterns.
When openings 728 are circular, openings 728 may be approximately 0.5mm to 30mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 728 are approximately 0.5mm to 20mm in
diameter. In some embodiments, circular openings 728 are approximately 0.5mm to 15mm in
diameter.    When openings 728 are slot shaped, openings 728 may be approximately 2mm to
30mm wide and 5mm to 500mm long.                In some embodiments, slot openings 728 are
approximately 2mm to 20mm wide and 5mm to 200mm long.                  In some embodiments, slot
openings 728 are approximately 2mm to 15mm wide and 5mm to 100mm long.
         [01341 In some embodiments, openings 728 cover all or a portion of trap portion 714. For
example, openings 728 may cover a range of approximately 1% to 75% of the surface area of trap
portion 714. In some embodiments, openings 728 cover approximately 5% to 50% of the surface
area of trap portion 714. In some embodiments, openings 728 cover approximately 10% to 30%
of the surface area of trap portion 714.
         [01351 Figure 21 is a perspective view of an eighth embodiment of an insect trap,
indicated generally at 810. Insect trap 810 includes a trap portion 814 and a base portion 812. In
Figure 21, trap portion 814 is shown removed from the base portion 812. In some embodiments,
trap portion 814 includes a tab 818 protruding downward from a bottom surface 850.            Base
portion 812 may have a corresponding opening 824 (shown in Figure 23) to receive tab 818 when
trap portion 814 is mounted to base portion 812. As shown, base portion 812 includes a switch
816.
         [0136] Figure 22 is a cross sectional view of insect trap 810 showing trap portion 814
mounted to base portion 812 and Figure 23 is an enlarged view of a portion of Figure 22. In some
embodiments, base portion 812 includes a circuit board 822 having a programmable processor or
chip (not shown) for executing commands, and configured to provide power and instructions to
desired components (e.g., switch 816, LEDs 826, etc.).        For clarity, however, not all of the
electrical connections are shown. In some embodiments, circuit board 822 includes a docking or
trap switch 820 mounted thereon.         Tab 818 on trap portion 814 may protrude through
corresponding opening 824 in base portion 812 and engage electrical trap switch 820 when trap
                                                 46

 1002031958
portion 814 is mounted to base portion 812. Trap switch 820 may be configured to close when
tab 818 on trap portion 814 engages with it and may be configured to open when the 818 is lifted
from trap switch 820 (e.g., when trap portion 814 is removed from base portion 812). In some
embodiments, trap switch 820 is configured to activate in response to pressure from tab 818 on
trap portion 814.    Alternatively, trap switch 820 may be configured to activate in response to
displacement by tab 818 on trap portion 814. Alternatively, trap switch 820 may be configured as
an optical switch to close when a light beam is broken by tab 818 of trap portion 814, or may be
configured as a Hall effect sensor to close when in proximity to a magnet on trap portion 814, or
may be configured as any other switch or sensor that opens or closes when trap portion 814 is
mounted or removed from base portion 812.
         [0137] Trap switch 820 is electrically connected to circuit board 822 and/or switch 816 to
deactivate a lighting element such as UV and/or visible light LEDs 826 when trap portion 814 is
removed from base portion 812, thereby preventing the user from looking directly at the UV
and/or visible light from the LEDs 826.         Alternatively, trap switch 820 may be electrically
connected to circuit board 822 and/or switch 816 to deactivate only the UV LEDs 826 when trap
portion 814 is removed from the portion 812.
         [0138] In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the present
discussion may be applied, it should be recognized that the embodiments described herein with
respect to the drawing figures are meant to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting
the scope of the claims. For example, while angle measurements have been described as relative
to the primary direction of light from the LEDs, for simplicity, the angles could also be relative to
the vertical axis. In addition, for each of the embodiments, the front of the housing (or the entire
housing or the entire trap portion) may be formed in a variety of decorative and/or functional
shapes. For example, the housing may be shaped to resemble a flower or a plant, or a shell, or a
company logo, or a sports team logo, or a football, or basketball, or soccer ball, or hockey puck,
or a football helmet, or a hockey stick, or any other shape. Each of the example embodiments
may include elements from other embodiments, even if not explicitly shown.            Therefore, the
techniques as described herein contemplate all such embodiments as may come within the scope
of the following claims and equivalents thereof.
                                                  47

1002031958
                                              CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
       1.       A method of using an insect trap, comprising:
       providing a base portion comprising a lighting element;
       providing a trap portion comprising an enclosure and an adhesive surface for trapping an
insect;
       coupling the base portion to a power source to provide power to a lighting element; and
       wherein the lighting element is turned off upon separating the trap portion from the base
portion.
       2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the base portion further comprises a docking
switch that activates the lighting element when the trap portion is mounted to the base portion.
       3.       The method of claim 2, wherein the docking switch comprises a mechanical
switch, an optical switch, an electronic switch, an electromechanical switch, or a Hall effect
sensor.
       4.       The method of claim 2, wherein the trap portion further comprises a docking
switch activator that activates the docking switch when the trap portion engages the base portion.
       5.       The method of claim 4, wherein the docking switch activator is a surface, a
protrusion, a tab or a magnet.
       6.       The method of claim 4, wherein the docking switch closes when the docking
activator engages the docking switch and opens when the docking activator disengages from the
switch.
       7.       The method of claim 4, wherein the docking switch activates in response to
pressure from the docking activator.
                                                  48

1002031958
       8.        The method of claim 4, wherein the docking switch activates in response to
displacement by the docking activator.
       9.        A method comprising:
       providing a base portion of an insect trap;
       providing a first trap portion of an insect trap, wherein the first trap portion comprises an
opening;
       mounting the first trap portion to the base portion;
       coupling the base portion to a power source to provide power to a lighting element, wherein
the lighting element is within the base portion or first trap portion and wherein the lighting
element attracts an insect into the first trap portion;
       receiving an insect into the first trap portion through the opening;
       separating the first trap portion from the base portion;
       disposing of the first trap portion; and
       wherein upon separating the first trap portion from the base portion, the lighting element is
powered off.
        10.      A method comprising:
       providing a base portion of an insect trap;
       providing a first trap portion of an insect trap, wherein the first trap portion comprises an
opening;
       mounting the first trap portion to the base portion;
       coupling the base portion to a power source to provide power to a lighting element, wherein
the lighting element is within the base portion or first trap portion and wherein the lighting
element attracts an insect into the first trap portion;
       receiving an insect into the first trap portion through the opening;
       separating the first trap portion from the base portion;
       disposing of the first trap portion; and
       wherein upon separating the first trap portion from the base portion, the lighting element is
at least partially shielded from emitting light.
                                                     49

1002031958
       11.      The method according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the first trap portion is
disposed without human contact with the insect in the first trap portion.
       12.      The method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the first trap portion
comprises an adhesive surface and wherein the insect adheres to the adhesive surface.
       13.      The method according to any one of claims 9 to 12, further comprising providing a
second trap portion of an insect trap comprising an opening and mounting the second trap portion
to the base portion.
       14.      The method according to any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein the first trap portion
and the second trap portion have different configurations.
                                                 50

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
