A medical device comprising: a surgical needle (12); and an elongated mesh suture having a first end
(14a) attached to the surgical needle and a second end (14b) located away from the surgical needle,
the elongated mesh suture (14) including a flat wall and a plurality of pores (20) extending through
the flat wall, the flat wall having a length dimension extending substantially entirely from the first
end to the second end of the elongated mesh suture, the flat wall having a crosssectional
rectangular profile with a substantially uniform width dimension and a substantially uniform
thickness dimension along the entire length dimension, such that the pores are adapted to facilitate
tissue integration through the flat wall when the elongated mesh suture is introduced into a body.

WO 2013/126130                          PCT/US2012/069480
                     9/17
                                     18
                                                      14b
                             14
                10                16
       12
                          20
                 14a
                      FIGURE 9
                                                         14
             22
                              14b
                      FIGURE 10

                                      IMPROVED SUTURE
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
  [0001]       The priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/602,183,
  filed February 23, 2012, is hereby claimed and the entire contents thereof are
  incorporated herein by reference.
                                FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
  [0002]     The present disclosure provides sutures with increased surface area and/or
  tissue integrative properties and methods of use and manufacture thereof. In
  particular, provided herein are sutures with cross-section profiles and other structural
  characteristics that strengthen closure, prevent suture pull-through, and/or resist
  infection, and methods of use thereof.
                                        BACKGROUND
       One of the foundations of surgery is the use of suture to re-appose tissue, i.e., to
hold tissue in a desired configuration until it can heal. In principle, suturing constitutes
introducing a high tensile foreign construct (looped suture) into separate pieces of
tissue in order to hold those pieces in close proximity until scar formation can occur,
establishing continuity and strength between tissues. Sutures initially provide the full
strength of the repair, but then become secondarily reinforcing or redundant as the
tissue heals. The time until tissue healing reaches its maximal strength and is
dependent on suture for approximation, therefore, is a period of marked susceptibility
to failure of the repair due to forces naturally acting to pull the tissues apart.
                                               1

[0003]      Conventional sutures provide a circular or single-point cross-sectional
profile extended over the length of the suture material. Such a suture has the great
benefit of radial symmetry, which eliminates directional orientation, allowing the user
(e.g., physician, surgeon, medic, etc.) to not have to worry about orienting the suture
during use. However, a considerable disadvantage of the currently used single-point
cross-section is that it does not effectively distribute force, and actively concentrates
force at a geometric point (e.g., the point at the leading edge of the circle) creating a
sharp edge in the axial dimension. Under these conditions, the tissue is continuously
exposed to tension, increasing the likelihood that stress concentration at a geometric
point or sharp edge will cut through the tissue.
[0004]      Indeed, studies of surgical closures, a most prominent example being
hernia repairs, demonstrate that the majority of failures or dehiscences occur in the
early post-operative period, in the days, weeks, or months immediately following the
operation, before full healing can occur. Sutures used to close the abdominal wall
have high failure rates as demonstrated by the outcome of hernia formation. After a
standard first-time laparotomy, the postoperative hernia occurrence rate is between
11-23%. The failure rate of sutures after hernia repair is as high as 54%. This is a
sizeable and costly clinical problem, with approximately 90,000 post-operative hernia
repairs performed annually in the United States. Surgical failures have been blamed
on poor suture placement, suture composition, patient issues such as smoking and
obesity, and defects in cellular and extracellular matrices. Clinical experience in
examining the cause of these surgical failures reveals that it is not breakage of suture
as is commonly thought; in the majority of cases the cause is tearing of the tissue
                                            2

around the suture, or from another perspective, intact stronger suture cutting through
weaker tissue. Mechanical analysis of the suture construct holding tissue together
shows that a fundamental problem with current suture design is stress concentration
at the suture puncture points through the tissue. That is, as forces act to pull tissues
apart, rather than stress being more evenly distributed throughout the repair, it is
instead concentrated at each point where the suture pierces through the tissue. The
results are twofold: (1) constant stress at suture puncture points causes sliding of
tissue around suture and enlargement of the holes, leading to loosening of the repair
and an impairment of wound healing, and (2) at every puncture point where the
stress concentration exceeds the mechanical strength of the tissue, the suture slices
through the tissue causing surgical dehiscence. In addition, high pressure on the
tissue created during tightening of the surgical knot can lead to local tissue
dysfunction, irritation, inflammation, infection, and in the worst case tissue necrosis.
This tissue necrosis found within the suture loop is one additional factor of eventual
surgical failure.
[0005]     There has been no commercial solution to the aforementioned problems
with conventional sutures. Rather, thinner sutures continue to be preferred because
it is commonly thought that a smaller diameter may minimize tissue injury. However,
the small cross-sectional diameter in fact increases the local forces applied to the
tissue, thereby increasing suture pull-through and eventual surgical failure.
[0006]     One alternative to the conventional suture is disclosed by Calvin H. Frazier
in U.S. Patent No. 4,034,763. The Frazier patent discloses a tubular suture
manufactured from loosely woven or expanded plastic material that has sufficient
                                            3

microporosity to be penetrated with newly formed tissue after introduction into the
body. The Frazier patent does not expressly describe what pore sizes fall within the
definition of "microporosity" and moreover it is not very clear as to what tissue
"penetration" means. The Frazier patent does, however, state that the suture
promotes the formation of ligamentous tissue for initially supplementing and then
ultimately replacing the suture's structure and function. Furthermore, the Frazier
patent describes that the suture is formed from Dacron or polytetrafluoroethylene
(i.e., Teflon@), which are both commonly used as vascular grafts. From this
disclosure, a person having ordinary skill in the art would understand that the suture
disclosed in the Frazier patent would have pore sizes similar to those found in
vascular grafts constructed from Dacron or Teflon@. It is well understood that
vascular grafts constructed of these materials serve to provide a generally fluid-tight
conduit for accommodating blood flow. Moreover, it is well understood that such
materials have a microporosity that enables textured fibrous scar tissue formation
adjacent to the graft wall such that the graft itself becomes encapsulated in that scar
tissue. Tissue does not grow through the graft wall, but rather, grows about the graft
wall in a textured manner. Enabling tissue in-growth through the wall of a vascular
graft would be counterintuitive because vascular grafts are designed to carry blood;
thus, porosity large enough to actually permit either leakage of blood or in-growth of
tissue, which would restrict or block blood flow, would be counterintuitive and not
contemplated. As such, these vascular grafts, and therefore the small pore sizes of
the microporous suture disclosed in the Frazier patent, operate to discourage and
prevent normal neovascularization and tissue in-growth into the suture. Pore sizes
                                           4

less than approximately 200 microns are known to be watertight and disfavor
neovascularization. See, e.g., Mhl et al., New Objective Measurement to
Characterize the Porosity of Textile Implants, Journal of Biomedical Materials
Research Part B: Applied Biomaterials DOI 10.1 002/jbmb, Page 5 (Wiley Periodicals,
Inc. 2007). Accordingly, one skilled in the art would understand that the suture
disclosed in the Frazier patent has a pore size that is at least less than approximately
200 microns. Thus, in summary, the Frazier patent seeks to take advantage of that
microporosity to encourage the body's natural "foreign body response" of
inflammation and scar tissue formation to create a fibrous scar about the suture.
                               GENERAL DESCRIPTION
[0007]    In contrast, the present disclosure is directed to sutures designed to
discourage that "foreign body response" of inflammation and fibrotic tissue formation
about the suture by utilizing a macroporous structure. The macroporous structure
seeks to minimize the foreign body response to the suture. In direct contrast to the
microporous structure, the macroporous structure is optimized to achieve maximal
biocompatibility by permitting neovascularization and local/normal tissue ingrowth
into the suture itself.
[0008]    In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides surgical sutures
comprising a cross-sectional profile lacking radial symmetry. In some embodiments,
the surgical suture comprises a ribbon-like geometry. In some embodiments, the
suture is between 0.1 mm and 1 cm wide (e.g. >0.1mm, >0.2mm, >0.3mm, >0.4mm,
>0.5mm, >0.6mm, >0.7mm, >0.8mm, >0.9mm, >1mm, >2mm, >3mm, >4mm, >5mm,
                                          5

>6mm, >7mm, >8mm, >9mm), although other dimensions may be used. In some
embodiments, the suture is about 3.75 mm wide (e.g., 3 mm, 3.1 mm, 3.2 mm, 3.3
mm, 3.4 mm, 3.5 mm, 3.6 mm, 3.7 mm, 3.8 mm, 3.9 mm, 4.0 mm, 4.1 mm, 4.2 mm,
4.3 mm, 4.4 mm, 4.5 mm). In some embodiments, the suture comprises a 2D cross
sectional profile. In some embodiments, the 2D cross-sectional profile comprises an
ellipse, half ellipse, gibbous, half circle, crescent, concave ribbon, or rectangle;
although other shapes may be used. In some embodiments, the suture comprises
polyethylene terephthalate, nylon, polyolefin, polypropylene, silk, polymers p
dioxanone, co-polymer of p-dioxanone, s-caprolactone, glycolide, L(-)-lactide, D(+)
lactide, meso-lactide, trimethylene carbonate, polydioxanone homopolymer, and
combinations thereof, although other materials may be used. In some embodiments,
the suture comprises polypropylene. In some embodiments, a suture is sterile,
surgical grade, medical grade, etc.
[0009]       In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides surgical sutures
comprising a flexible material containing one or more internal voids (e.g., hollow core,
honeycomb, single or multiple lumen, etc.) that extend the length of the suture. In
some embodiments, the surgical suture adopts a first cross-sectional profile in the
absence of lateral stress, and a second cross-sectional profile in the presence of
lateral stress. In some embodiments, the first cross-sectional profile exhibits
substantial radial symmetry. In some embodiments, the second cross-sectional
profile exhibits partially or wholly collapsed conformation.
[0010]       In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides surgical sutures
comprising material and structure configured to permit tissue in-growth upon
                                              6

placement of the suture into the tissue of a subject. In some embodiments, the
material comprises pores that permit tissue in-growth. In some embodiments, the
pores comprise macropores (e.g., pores having a diameter >200 pm, >300 pm, >400
pm, >500 pm, >600 pm, >700 pm , >800 pm, >900 pm, >1 mm, >2 mm, or more).
In some embodiments, the pores comprise micropores (e.g., pores having a diameter
<200 pm , <150 pm , <100 pm , <75 pm, <70 pm, <50 pm, <25 pm, <10 pm, <1 pm,
<0.5 pm, <0.1 pm, or less). In some embodiment, the pores can include a
combination of macropores and micropores. In some embodiments, the pores may
be of any suitable shape (e.g., circular, diamond, amorphous, etc. In some
embodiments, the material comprises a textured surface (e.g., grooves, web, mesh,
ribs, barbs, etc.). In some embodiments, the suture comprises a cross-sectional
profile lacking radial symmetry. In some embodiments, the suture comprises a cross
sectional profile lacking substantially radial symmetry. In some embodiments, the
suture comprises a ribbon-like geometry. In some embodiments, the suture is
between 1 mm and 1 cm wide. In some embodiments, the suture comprises a 2D
cross-sectional profile. In some embodiments, the 2D cross-sectional profile
comprises an ellipse, half ellipse, gibbous, half circle, crescent, concave ribbon, or
rectangle. In some embodiments, the suture comprises polypropylene. In some
embodiments, a suture is sterile, surgical grade, medical grade, etc.
[0011]       In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides suturing needles
comprising a distal end and a proximal end, wherein the proximal end is configured
for attachment to a suture material, wherein the distal end in configured for insertion
into tissue, and wherein the needle transitions from a radially symmetric cross
                                            7

sectional profile (or substantially radially symmetric) or so-called triangular "cutting"
configurations at the distal end to a cross-sectional profile lacking radial symmetry at
the proximal end. In some embodiments, the needle produces a puncture lacking
radial symmetry when inserted through a tissue. In some embodiments, the cross
sectional profile lacking radial symmetry comprises a ribbon-like geometry. In some
embodiments, the ribbon-like geometry is between 1 mm and 1 cm wide. In some
embodiments, the cross-sectional profile lacking radial symmetry comprises a 2D
cross-sectional profile. In some embodiments, the 2D cross-sectional profile
comprises an ellipse, half ellipse, gibbous, half circle, crescent, concave ribbon, or
rectangle. In some embodiments, a suturing needle is sterile, surgical grade, medical
grade, etc.
[0012]      In some embodiments, the present disclosure comprises a suturing
system comprising: (a) a suturing needle (e.g., as described above), comprising a
distal end and a proximal end, wherein the proximal end is configured for attachment
to a suture material, wherein the distal end is configured for insertion into tissue, and
wherein the needle comprises a cross-sectional profile lacking radial symmetry at the
proximal end of the needle; and (b) a surgical suture (e.g., as described above)
comprising a cross-sectional profile lacking radial symmetry.
[0013]      In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides methods of using
any of the above sutures, suturing needles, and/or systems to suture a tissue and/or
close an opening in a tissue (e.g., epidermal tissue, peritoneum, adipose tissue,
cardiac tissue, or any other tissue in need of suturing).
                                             8

[0014]       In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides methods of
suturing an opening in a tissue comprising: (a) providing a suture with distal and
proximal ends, wherein said proximal end is attached to a needle, and wherein said
distal end comprises an integrated loop structure; (b) inserting said needle through
said tissue adjacent to a first end of said opening; (c) pulling said suture through said
tissue until said distal end of said suture is adjacent to said tissue; (d) placing said
needle and said suture through said loop to create a lasso at the distal end of said
suture;      (e) suturing closed said opening from said first end to a second end; (f)
stapling said suture at a second end; and (g) cutting remaining suture material and
needle proximal to the staple.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015]     Figure 1 shows a schematic of incision and suture geometry.
[0016]     Figure 2 shows a schematic demonstrating the effect of tension between a
suture and the surrounding tissue.
[0017]     Figure 3 shows finite element analysis of the suture/tissue interface.
[0018]     Figure 4 shows finite element analysis demonstrating that increasing suture
size decreases the forces at the suture/tissue interface.
[0019]     Figure 5 shows finite element analysis demonstrating that suture shape
impacts the local forces applied on the tissue by suture.
                                            9

[0020]      Figures 6 and 7 show graphs demonstrating the relative equivalence of the
tensile strength of an 0 polypropylene suture and 2mm wide nonradially symmetric
(ribbon-shaped) suture.
[0021]      Figure 8 shows images of tensometry experiments conducted using
traditional and 2D sutures and porcine linea alba.
[0022]      Figure 9 shows an illustration of an exemplary integrated needle and suture
comprising: (1) a sharp needle point, (2) needle body, (3) transition area, (4) flattened
profile, (5) porous suture wall, and (6) hollow core.
[0023]      Figure 9A is a detailed view of a portion of the porous suture wall of Figure
9.
[0024]      Figure 10 shows an illustration of an exemplary anchor end comprising a
crimped loop: (1) crimpled joint, (2) circular profile.
[0025]      Figure 11 shows an illustration of an exemplary anchor end comprising a
flattened loop: (1) flattened loop, (2) transition area, (3) circular profile.
[0026]      Figure 12 shows an illustration of an exemplary anchor end comprising a
formed loop: (1) formed joint, (2) circular profile.
[0027]      Figure 13 shows a schematic demonstrating an altered cross-sectional
profile upon application of non-axial force to a hollow core suture.
[0028]      Figure 14 shows a graph of the effect of suture width on maximum suture
load in ex vivo porcine linea alba.
[0029]      Figure 15 shows a graph of the effect of suture width on maximum suture
load in synthetic foam sheeting.
                                            10

[0030]     Figures 16 and 7 show comparison images of the tissue integration that is
achieved with a macroporous suture of the present disclosure versus the failure
suffered with a conventional suture when used to repair a rat hernia.
[0031]     Figure 18 shows a graph comparing the mean defect area of thirty rat
hernias repaired in Figures 16 and 17 randomized to repair either with a
macroporous suture of the present disclosure or with a conventional suture. The
data analyzes defect size one month after repair.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0032]      The present disclosure provides a medical suture having a macroporous
tubular construct that advantageously promotes neovascularization and normal tissue
in-growth and integration subsequent to introduction into the body. Additionally, the
present disclosure provides various sutures with increased surface area and/or tissue
integrative properties and methods of use and manufacture thereof. In particular,
provided herein are sutures with cross-section profiles and other structural
characteristics that strengthen closure, prevent suture pull-through, and/or resist
infection, and methods of use thereof. In some embodiments, sutures are provided
that strengthen closure, prevent suture pull-through, and/or resist infection by, for
example: (1) having a cross sectional profile that reduces pressure at suture points,
(2) having a structural composition that allows tissue in-growth into the suture, or
both (1) and (2). The present disclosure is not limited by any specific means for
achieving the desired ends.
                                          11

[0033]       In some embodiments, conventional sutures exhibit a cross-sectional
profile with radial symmetry or substantially radial symmetry. As used herein, the
term "substantially radial symmetry" refers to a shape (e.g., cross-sectional profile)
that approximates radial symmetry. A shape that has dimensions that are within 10%
error of a shape exhibiting precise radial symmetry is substantially radially symmetric.
For example, an oval that is 1.1 mm high and 1.0 mm wide is substantially radially
symmetric. In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides sutures that lack
radial symmetry and/or substantial radial symmetry.
[0034]       In some embodiments, sutures are provided comprising cross-section
shapes (e.g. flat, elliptical, etc.) that reduce tension against the tissue at the puncture
site and reduce the likelihood of tissue tear. In some embodiments, devices (e.g.,
sutures) and methods provided herein reduce suture stress concentration at suture
puncture points. In some embodiments, sutures with shaped cross-sectional profiles
distribute forces more evenly (e.g., to the inner surface of the suture puncture hole)
than traditional suture shapes/confirmation. In some embodiments, cross-sectionally
shaped sutures distribute tension about the suture puncture points. In some
embodiments, rather than presenting a sharp point or line of suture to tissue, as is
the case with traditional sutures, the sutures described herein present a flat or gently
rounded plane to the leading edge of tissue, thereby increasing the surface area over
which force can be distributed. In some embodiments, one cross-sectional
dimension of the suture is greater than the orthogonal cross-sectional dimension
(e.g., 1.1x greater, 1.2x greater, 1.3x greater, 1.4x greater, 1.5x greater, 1.6x greater,
1.7x greater, 1.8x greater, 1.9x greater, >2x greater, 2.Ox greater, 2.1x greater, 2.2x
                                              12

greater, 2.3x greater, 2.4x greater, 2.5x greater, 2.6x greater, 2.7x greater, 2.8x
greater, 2.9x greater, 3.Ox greater, >3.Ox greater, 3.1 x greater, 3.2x greater, 3.3x
greater, 3.4x greater, 3.5x greater, 3.6x greater, 3.7x greater, 3.8x greater, 3.9x
greater, 4.Ox greater, >4.Ox greater... >5.Ox greater... >6.Ox greater... >7.Ox
greater... >8.Ox greater... >9.Ox greater... >1 O.Ox greater). In some embodiments,
sutures provided herein are flat or ellipsoidal on cross section, forming a ribbon-like
conformation. In some embodiments, sutures are provided that do not present a
sharp leading edge to the tissue. In some embodiments, use of the sutures described
herein reduces the rates of surgical dehiscence in all tissues (e.g., hernia repairs,
etc.). In some embodiments, sutures are provided with cross-sectional profiles that
provide optimal levels of strength, flexibility, compliance, macroporosity, and/or
durability while decreasing the likelihood of suture pull-through. In some
embodiments, sutures are provided with sizes or shapes to enlarge the suture/tissue
interface of each suture/tissue contact point, thereby distributing force over a greater
area.
[0035]       In some embodiments, sutures of the present disclosure provide various
improvements over conventional sutures. In some embodiments, sutures provide:
reduced likelihood of suture pull-through, increased closure strength, decreased
number of stitches for a closure, more rapid healing times, and/or reduction in closure
failure relative to a traditional suture. In some embodiments, relative improvements
in suture performance (e.g., initial closure strength, rate of achieving tissue strength,
final closure strength, rate of infection, etc.) are assessed in a tissue test model,
animal test model, simulated test model, in silico testing, etc.. In some embodiments,
                                             13

sutures of the present disclosure provide increased initial closure strength (e.g., at
least a 10% increase in initial closure strength (e.g., >10%, >25%, >50%, >75%, >2
fold, >3-fold, >4-fold, >5-fold, >10-fold, or more). As used herein, "initial closure
strength" refers to the strength of the closure (e.g., resistance to opening), prior to
strengthening of the closure by the healing or scarring processes. In some
embodiments, the increased initial closure strength is due to mechanical distribution
of forces across a larger load-bearing surface area that reduces micromotion and
susceptibility to pull through. In some embodiments, sutures of the present
disclosure provide increased rate of achieving tissue strength (e.g., from healing of
tissue across the opening, from ingrowth of tissue into the integrative (porous) design
of the suture, etc.). In some embodiments, sutures of the present disclosure provide
at least a 10% increase in rate of achieving tissue strength (e.g., >10%, >25%,
>50%, >75%, >2-fold, >3-fold, >4-fold, >5-fold, >10-fold, or more). In some
embodiments, increased rate of return of tissue strength across the opening further
increases load bearing surface area, thereby promoting tissue stability and
decreased susceptibility to pull through. In some embodiments, sutures of the
present disclosure establish closure strength earlier in the healing process (e.g., due
to greater initial closure strength and/or greater rate of achieving tissue strength)
when the closure is most susceptible to rupture (e.g., at least a 10% reduction in time
to establish closure strength (e.g., >10% reduction, >25% reduction, >50% reduction,
>75% reduction, >2-fold reduction, >3-fold reduction, >4-fold reduction, >5-fold
reduction, >10-fold reduction, or more)). In some embodiments, sutures of the
present disclosure provide increased final closure strength (e.g., at least a 10%
                                           14

increase in final closure strength (e.g., >10%, >25%, >50%, >75%, >2-fold, >3-fold,
>4-fold, >5-fold, >10-fold, or more). In some embodiments, the strength of fully
healed closure is created not only by interface between the two apposed tissue
surfaces, as is the case with conventional suture closures, but also along the total
surface area of the integrated suture. In some embodiments, tissue integration into
the suture decreases the rate of suture abscesses and/or infections that otherwise
occur with solid foreign materials of the same size (e.g., at least a 10% reduction in
suture abscesses and/or infection (e.g., >10% reduction, >25% reduction, >50%
reduction, >75% reduction, >2-fold reduction, >3-fold reduction, >4-fold reduction,
>5-fold reduction, >10-fold reduction, or more)). In some embodiments, sutures
provide at least a 10% reduction (e.g., >10%, >20%, >30%, >40%, >50%, >60%,
>70%, >80%, >90%, or more) in suture pull-through (e.g. through tissue (e.g.,
epidermal tissue, peritoneum, adipose tissue, cardiac tissue, or any other tissue in
need of suturing), or through control substance (e.g., ballistic gel)).
[0036]      In some embodiments, sutures are provided with any suitable cross
section profile or shape that provides reduced stress at the tissue puncture site, point
of contact with tissue, and/or closure site. In some embodiments, sutures have
cross-sectional dimensions (e.g., width and/or depth) or between 0.1 mm and 1 cm
(e.g., 0.1 mm... 0.2 mm... 0.5 mm... 1.0 mm... 2.0 mm... 5.0 mm... 1 cm). In some
embodiments, the suture dimensions (e.g., width and/or depth) that minimize pull
through and/or provide maximum load are utilized. In some embodiments, optimal
suture dimensions are empirically determined for a given tissue and suture material.
In some embodiments, one or both cross-sectional dimensions of a suture are the
                                           15

same as the cross-sectional dimensions of a traditional suture. In some
embodiments, a suture comprises the same cross-sectional area as a traditional
suture, but with different shape and/or dimensions. In some embodiments, a suture
comprises the greater cross-sectional area than a traditional suture. In some
embodiments, a suture cross-section provides a broad leading edge to spread
pressure out over a broader portion of tissue. In some embodiments, a suture cross
section provides a shaped leading edge (e.g., convex) that evenly distributes force
along a segment of tissue, rather than focusing it at a single point. In some
embodiments, shaped sutures prevent pull-through by distributing forces across the
tissue rather than focusing them at a single point. In some embodiments, sutures
prevent pull-through by providing a broader cross-section that is more difficult to pull
through tissue.
[0037]      In some embodiments, ribbon-like suture or flat sutures are provided. In
some embodiments, sutures provided herein comprise any suitable cross-sectional
shape that provides the desired qualities and characteristics. In some embodiments,
suture cross-sectional shape provides enhanced and/or enlarged leading edge
surface distance and/or area (e.g. to reduce localized pressure on tissue). In some
embodiments, suture cross-sectional shape comprises: an ellipse, half-ellipse, half
circle, gibbous, rectangle, square, crescent, pentagon, hexagon, concave ribbon,
convex ribbon, H-beam, I-beam, dumbbell, etc. In some embodiments, a suture
cross-sectional profile comprises any combination of curves, lines, corners, bends,
etc. to achieve a desired shape. In some embodiments, the edge of the sutures
configured to contact the tissue and/or place pressure against the tissue is broader
                                          16

than one or more other suture dimensions. In some embodiments, the edge of the
sutures configured to contact the tissue and/or place pressure against the tissue is
shaped to evenly distribute forces across the region of contact.
[0038]      In some embodiments, hollow core sutures are provided such as that
depicted in Figure 9. More specifically, Figure 9 depicts a medical device 10 that
includes a surgical needle 12 and an elongated suture 14. In Figure 9, the needle 12
includes a contoured or curved needle with a flattened cross-sectional profile, but
needles with generally any geometry could be used. The suture 14 can be a hollow
core suture with a first end 14a attached to the needle 12 and a second end 14b
located a distance away from the needle 12. As shown, the entire length of the
suture 14 between the first and second ends 14a, 14b can include a tubular wall 16
that defines a hollow core 18. In other versions, however, less than the entire length
of the suture 14 can be tubular. For example, it is foreseeable that either or both of
the first and second ends 14a, 14b can have a non-tubular portion or portion of other
geometry. Such non-tubular portions could be for attaching the first end 14a of the
suture 14 to the needle 12 or for tying off the second end 14b, for example. In
versions where the entire length of the suture 14 is tubular, as shown, the entire
length of the suture 14 including the ends and central portion also has generally a
constant or uniform diameter or thickness in the absence of stresses. That is, no
portion of the suture 14 is meaningfully larger in diameter than any other portion of
the suture 14. Moreover, no aspect, end, or other portion of the suture 14 is intended
to be or is actually passed through, disposed in, received in, or otherwise positioned
                                           17

inside of the hollow core 18. The hollow core 18 is adapted for receiving tissue in
growth only.
[0039]     In some embodiments, the tubular wall 16 can have a diameter in a range
of approximately 1 mm to approximately 10 mm and can be constructed of a material
such as, for example, polyethylene terephthalate, nylon, polyolefin, polypropylene,
silk, polymers p-dioxanone, co-polymer of p-dioxanone, E-caprolactone, glycolide, L(
)-lactide, D(+)-lactide, meso-lactide, trimethylene carbonate, polydioxanone
homopolymer, and combinations thereof. So constructed, the tubular wall 16 of the
suture 14 can be radially deformable such that it adopts a first cross-sectional profile
in the absence of lateral stresses and a second cross-sectional profile in the
presence of lateral stresses. For example, in the absence of lateral stresses, the
tubular wall 16 and therefore the suture 14 depicted in Figure 9, for example, can
have a circular cross-sectional profile, thereby exhibiting radial symmetry. In the
presence of a lateral stress, such a suture 14 could then exhibit a partially or wholly
collapsed conformation.
[0040]     In at least one version of the medical device 10, at least some of the tubular
wall 16 can be macroporous defining a plurality of pores 20 (e.g., openings,
apertures, holes, etc.), only a few of which are expressly identified by reference
number and lead line in Figure 9 for clarity. The pores 20 extend completely through
the mesh wall 16 to the hollow core 18. In some versions, the tubular wall 16 can be
constructed of a woven or knitted mesh material. In one version, the wall 16 can be
constructed of a knitted polypropylene mesh material similar or identical to that which
                                           18

is available under the trade name Prolene Soft Mesh and offered for sale by Ethicon.
Other similarly constructed mesh materials would be suitable as well.
[0041]     As used herein, the term "macroporous" can include pore sizes that are at
least greater than or equal to approximately 200 microns and, preferably, greater
than or equal to 500 microns. In some versions of the medical device 10, the size of
at least some the pores 20 in the suture 14 can be in a range of approximately 500
microns to approximately 4 millimeters. In another version, at least some of the
pores 20 can have a pore size in the range of approximately 500 microns to
approximately 2.5 millimeters. In another version, at least some of the pores 20 can
have a pore size in the range of approximately 1 millimeter to approximately 2.5
millimeters. In another version, the size of at least some of the pores 20 can be
approximately 2 millimeters. Moreover, in some versions, the pores 20 can vary in
size. For example, as mentioned above and as also illustrated in Figure 9A, in some
versions, some of the pores 20a can be macroporous (e.g., greater than
approximately 200 microns) and some of the pores 20b can be microporous (e.g.,
less than approximately 200 microns). The presence of microporosity (i.e., pores
less than approximately 200 microns) in such versions of the disclosed suture may
only be incidental to the manufacturing process, which can including knitting,
weaving, extruding, blow molding, or otherwise, but not necessarily intended for any
other functional reason regarding biocompatibility or tissue integration. The presence
of microporosity (i.e, some pores less than approximately 200 microns in size) as a
byproduct or incidental result of manufacturing does not change the character of the
disclosed macroporous suture (e.g., with pores greater than approximately 200
                                          19

microns, and preferably greater than approximately 500 microns, for example), which
facilitates tissue in-growth to aid biocompatibility, reduce tissue inflammation, and
decrease suture pull-through.
[0042]      In versions of the disclosed suture that has both macroporosity and
microporosity, the number of pores 20 that are macroporous can be in a range from
approximately 1% of the pores to approximately 99% of the pores (when measured
by pore cross-sectional area), in a range from approximately 5% of the pores to
approximately 99% of the pores (when measured by pore cross-sectional area), in a
range from approximately 10% of the pores to approximately 99% of the pores (when
measured by pore cross-sectional area), in a range from approximately 20% of the
pores to approximately 99% of the pores (when measured by pore cross-sectional
area), in a range from approximately 30% of the pores to approximately 99% of the
pores (when measured by pore cross-sectional area), in a range from approximately
50% of the pores to approximately 99% of the pores (when measured by pore cross
sectional area), in a range from approximately 60% of the pores to approximately
99% of the pores (when measured by pore cross-sectional area), in a range from
approximately 70% of the pores to approximately 99% of the pores (when measured
by pore cross-sectional area), in a range from approximately 80% of the pores to
approximately 99% of the pores (when measured by pore cross-sectional area), or in
a range from approximately 90% of the pores to approximately 99% of the pores
(when measured by pore cross-sectional area).
[0043]     So configured, the pores 20 in the suture 14 are arranged and configured
such that the suture 14 is adapted to facilitate and allow tissue in-growth and
                                            20

integration through the pores 20 in the mesh wall 16 and into the hollow core 18
when introduced into a body. That is, the pores 20 are of sufficient size to achieve
maximum biocompatibility by promoting neovascularization and local/normal tissue
in-growth through the pores 20 and into the hollow core 18 of the suture 14. As such,
tissue growth through the pores 16 and into the hollow core 20 enables the suture 14
and resultant tissue to combine and cooperatively increase the strength and efficacy
of the medical device 10, while also decreasing irritation, inflammation, local tissue
necrosis, and likelihood of pull through. Instead, the suture 14 promotes the
production of healthy new tissue throughout the suture construct including inside the
pores 20 and the hollow core 18.
[0044]     While the suture 14 in Figure 9 has been described as including a single
elongated hollow core 18, in some embodiments, a suture according to the present
disclosure can comprise a tubular wall defining a hollow core including one or more
interior voids (e.g., extending the length of the suture). In some versions, at least
some of the interior voids can have a size or diameter > approximately 200 microns,
> approximately 300 microns, > approximately 400 microns, > approximately 500
microns, > approximately 600 microns, > approximately 700 microns, >
approximately 800 microns, > approximately 900 microns, > approximately 1
millimeter, or > approximately 2 millimeters. In some embodiments, a suture
according to the present disclosure can comprise a tubular wall defining a hollow
core including one or more (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or more) lumens (e.g., running
the length of the suture). In some embodiments, a suture according to the present
disclosure can comprise a tubular wall defining a hollow core including a honeycomb
                                           21

structure, a 3D lattice structure, or other suitable interior matrix, which defines one or
more interior voids. In some versions, at least some of the interior voids in the
honeycomb structure, 3D lattice structure, or other suitable matrix can have a size or
diameter > approximately 200 microns, > approximately 300 microns, >
approximately 400 microns, > approximately 500 microns, > approximately 600
microns, > approximately 700 microns, > approximately 800 microns, >
approximately 900 microns, > approximately 1 millimeter, or > approximately 2
millimeters. In some embodiments, a void comprises a hollow core. In some
embodiments, a hollow core can include a hollow cylindrical space in the tubular wall,
but as described, the term "hollow core" is not limited to defining a cylindrical space,
but rather could include a labyrinth of interior voids defined by a honeycomb
structure, a 3D lattice structure, or some other suitable matrix. In some
embodiments, sutures comprise a hollow, flexible structure that has a circular cross
sectional profile in its non-stressed state, but which collapses into a more flattened
cross-sectional shape when pulled in an off-axis direction.      In some embodiments,
sutures are provided that exhibit radial symmetry in a non-stressed state. In some
embodiments, radial symmetry in a non-stressed state eliminates the need for
directional orientation while suturing. In some embodiments, sutures are provided
that exhibit a flattened cross-sectional profile when off-axis (longitudinal axis) force is
applied (e.g., tightening of the suture against tissue) (SEE FIG. 13), thereby more
evenly distributing the force applied by the suture on the tissue. In some
embodiments, sutures are provided that exhibit a flattened cross-sectional profile
when axial force is applied. In some embodiments, sutures comprise flexible
                                            22

structure that adopts a first cross-sectional profile in its non-stressed state (e.g.,
suturing profile), but adopts a second cross-sectional shape when pulled in an off
axis direction (e.g., tightened profile). In some embodiments, a suture is hollow
and/or comprises one or more internal voids (e.g., that run the length of the suture).
In some embodiments, internal voids are configured to encourage the suture to adopt
a preferred conformation (e.g., broadened leading edge to displace pressures across
the contacted tissue) when in a stressed states (e.g., tightened profile). In some
embodiments, internal voids are configured to allow a suture to adopt radial exterior
symmetry (e.g., circular outer cross-sectional profile) when in a non-stressed state.
In some embodiments, varying the size, shape, and/or placement of internal voids
alters one or both of the first cross-sectional profile (e.g., non-stressed profile,
suturing profile) and second cross-sectional profile (e.g., off-axis profile, stressed
profile, tightened profile).
[0045]       Sutures, which are substantially linear in geometry, have two distinct ends,
as described above with reference to Figure 9, for example. In some embodiments,
both ends are identical. In some embodiments, each end is different. In some
embodiments, one or both ends are structurally unadorned. In some embodiments,
one or more ends is attached to or at least configured for attachment to a needle via
swaging, sonic welding, adhesive, tying, or some other means (as shown Figure 9).
In some embodiments, the second end 14b of the suture 14 is configured to include
an anchor 22 (e.g., Figures 10, 11, 12) for anchoring the suture 14 against the tissue
through which the suture 14 is inserted. In some embodiments, the second end 14b
of the suture 14 is configured to anchor the suture at the beginning of the closure. In
                                            23

some embodiments, the second end 14b of the suture 14 includes an anchor 22 that
is a structure that prevents the suture 14 from being pulled completely through the
tissue. In some embodiments, the anchor 22 has a greater dimension than the rest
of the suture 14 (at least 10% greater, at least 25% greater, at least 50% greater, at
least 2-fold greater, at least 3-fold greater, at least 4-fold greater, at least 5-fold
greater, at least 6-fold greater, at least 10-fold greater, etc.). In some embodiments,
the anchor 22 comprises a structure with any suitable shape for preventing the suture
14 from being pulled through the hole (e.g., ball, disc, plate, cylinder), thereby
preventing the suture 14 from being pulled through the insertion hole. In some
embodiments, the anchor 22 of the suture 14 comprises a closed loop, as depicted in
Figure 10, for example. In some embodiments, the closed loop is of any suitable
structure including, but not limited to a crimpled loop (Figure 10), flattened loop
(Figure 11), or a formed loop (Figure 12). In some embodiments, a loop can be
integrated into the end of the suture 14. In some embodiments, a separate loop
structure can be attached to the suture 14. In some embodiments, the needle 12 can
be passed through the closed loop anchor 22 to create a cinch for anchoring the
suture 14 to that point. In some embodiments, the anchor 22 can comprise one or
more structures (e.g., barb, hook, etc.) to hold the end of the suture 14 in place. In
some embodiments, one or more anchor 22 structures (e.g., barb, hook, etc.) are
used in conjunction with a closed loop to ratchet down the cinch and hold its position.
In some embodiments, a knotless anchoring system can be provided.
[0046]      In some embodiments, and as briefly mentioned relative to Figure 9, the
present disclosure provides suturing needles with cross-sectional profiles configured
                                            24

to prevent suture pull-through and methods of use thereof. In some embodiments,
suturing needles are provided comprising cross-section shapes (e.g. flat, elliptical,
transitioning over the length of the needle, etc.) that reduce tension against the tissue
at the puncture site and reduce the likelihood of tissue tear. In some embodiments,
one cross-sectional dimension of the needle is greater than the orthogonal cross
sectional dimension (e.g., 1.1x greater, 1.2x greater, 1.3x greater, 1.4x greater, 1.5x
greater, 1.6x greater, 1.7x greater, 1.8x greater, 1.9x greater, >2x greater, 2.Ox
greater, 2.1x greater, 2.2x greater, 2.3x greater, 2.4x greater, 2.5x greater, 2.6x
greater, 2.7x greater, 2.8x greater, 2.9x greater, 3.Ox greater, >3.Ox greater, 3.1x
greater, 3.2x greater, 3.3x greater, 3.4x greater, 3.5x greater, 3.6x greater, 3.7x
greater, 3.8x greater, 3.9x greater, 4.Ox greater, >4.Ox greater... >5.Ox greater...
>6.Ox greater... >7.Ox greater... >8.Ox greater... >9.Ox greater... >10.Ox greater). In
some embodiments, suturing needles are provided circular in shape at its point (e.g.,
distal end), but transition to a flattened profile (e.g., ribbon-like) to the rear (e.g.
proximal end). In some embodiments, the face of the flattened area is orthogonal to
the radius of curvature of the needle. In some embodiments, suturing needles create
a slit (or flat puncture) in the tissue as it is passed through, rather than a circle or
point puncture. In some embodiments, suturing needles are provided circular in
shape at its point (e.g., distal end), but transition to a 2D cross-sectional profile (e.g.,
ellipse, crescent, half moon, gibbous, etc.) to the rear (e.g. proximal end). In some
embodiments, suturing needles provided herein find use with the sutures described
herein. In some embodiments, suturing needles find use with sutures of the same
shape and/or size. In some embodiments, suturing needles and sutures are not of
                                              25

the same size and/or shape. In some embodiments, suturing needles provided
herein find use with traditional sutures. Various types of suture needles are well
known in the art. In some embodiments, suturing needles provided herein comprise
any suitable characteristics of suturing needles known to the field, but modified with
dimensions described herein.
[0047]      In some embodiments, the present disclosure also provides compositions,
methods, and devices for anchoring the suture at the end of the closure (e.g., without
tying the suture to itself). In some embodiments, one or more securing elements
(e.g., staples) are positioned over the terminal end of the suture to secure the end of
the closure. In some embodiments, one or more securing elements (e.g., staples)
are secured to the last "rung" of the suture closure (e.g., to hold the suture tight
across the closure. In some embodiments, a securing element is a staple. In some
embodiments, a staple comprises stainless steel or any other suitable material. In
some embodiments, a staple comprises a plurality of pins that can pass full thickness
through 2 layers of suture. In some embodiments, staple pins are configured to
secure the suture end without cutting and/or weakening the suture filament. In some
embodiments, a staple forms a strong joint with the suture. In some embodiments, a
staple is delivered after the needle is cut from the suture. In some embodiments, a
staple is delivered and the needle removed simultaneously
[0048]      In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides devices (e.g.,
staple guns) for delivery of a staple into tissue to secure the suture end. In some
embodiments, a staple deployment device simultaneously or near-simultaneously
delivers a staple and removes the needle from the suture. In some embodiments, a
                                           26

staple deployment device comprises a bottom lip or shelf to pass under the last rung
of suture (e.g., between the suture and tissue surface) against which the pins of the
staple can be deformed into their locked position. In some embodiments, the bottom
lip of the staple deployment device is placed under the last rung of suture, the free
tail of the suture is placed within the stapling mechanism, and the suture is pulled
tight. In some embodiments, while holding tension, the staple deployment device is
activated, thereby joining the two layers of suture together. In some embodiments,
the device also cuts off the excess length of the free suture tail. In some
embodiments, the staple deployment device completes the running suture and trims
the excess suture in one step. In some embodiments, a suture is secured without the
need for knot tying. In some embodiments, only 1 staple is needed per closure. In
some embodiments, a standard stapler is used to apply staples and secure the
suture end. In some embodiments, a staple is applied to the suture end manually.
[0049]       In some embodiments, sutures provided herein provide tissue integrative
properties to increase the overall strength of the repair (e.g., at an earlier time-point
than traditional sutures). In some embodiments, sutures are provided with enhanced
tissue adhesion properties. In some embodiments sutures are provided that
integrate with the surrounding tissue. In some embodiments, tissue integrative
properties find use in conjunction with any other suture characteristics described
herein. In some embodiments, sutures allow integration of healing tissue into the
suture. In some embodiments, tissue growth into the suture is promoted (e.g., by the
surface texture of the suture). In some embodiments, tissue growth into the suture
prevents sliding of tissue around suture, and/or minimizes micromotion between
                                            27

suture and tissue. In some embodiments, tissue in-growth into the suture increases
the overall strength of the repair by multiplying the surface area for scar in
establishing continuity between tissues. Conventionally, the strength of a repair is
dependent only on the interface between the two tissue surfaces being
approximated. In some embodiments in-growth of tissue into the suture adds to the
surface area of the repair, thereby enhancing its strength. In some embodiments,
increasing the surface area for scar formation, the closure reaches significant
strength more quickly, narrowing the window of significant risk of dehiscence.
[0050]      In some embodiments, the surface and/or internal texture of a suture
promote tissue adhesion and/or ingrowth. In some embodiments, as discussed
above specifically with reference to Figure 9, a suture of the present disclosure can
comprise a porous (e.g., macroporous) and/or textured material. In some
embodiments, a suture comprises a porous (e.g., macroporous) and/or textured
exterior. In some embodiments, pores in the suture allow tissue in-growth and/or
integration. In some embodiments, a suture comprises a porous ribbon-like
structure, instead of a tubular like structure. In some embodiments, a porous suture
comprises a 2D cross-sectional profile (e.g., elliptical, circular (e.g., collapsible circle),
half moon, crescent, concave ribbon, etc.). In some embodiments, a porous suture
comprises polypropylene or any other suitable suture material. In some
embodiments, pores are between 500 pm and 3.5 mm or greater in diameter (e.g.,
e.g., >500 pm in diameter (e.g., ,>500 pm, >600 pm , >700 pm         , 800 pm, >900 pm,
>1 mm, or more ). In some embodiments pores are of varying sizes. In some
embodiments, a suture comprises any surface texture suitable to promote tissue in
                                            28

growth and/or adhesion. In some embodiments, suitable surface textures include,
but are not limited to ribbing, webbing, mesh, grooves, etc. In some embodiments,
the suture may include filaments or other structures (e.g., to provide increased
surface area and/or increased stability of suture within tissue). In some
embodiments, interconnected porous architecture is provided, in which pore size,
porosity, pore shape and/or pore alignment facilitates tissue in-growth.
[0051]       In some embodiments, a suture comprises a mesh and/or mesh-like
exterior. In some embodiments, a mesh exterior provides a flexible suture that
spreads pressure across the closure site, and allows for significant tissue in-growth.
In some embodiments, the density of the mesh is tailored to obtain desired flexibility,
elasticity, and in-growth characteristics.
[0052]       In some embodiments, a suture is coated and/or embedded with materials
to promote tissue ingrowth. Examples of biologically active compounds that may be
used sutures to promote tissue ingrowth include, but are not limited to, cell
attachment mediators, such as the peptide containing variations of the "RGD" integrin
binding sequence known to affect cellular attachment, biologically active ligands, and
substances that enhance or exclude particular varieties of cellular or tissue ingrowth.
Such substances include, for example, osteoinductive substances, such as bone
morphogenic proteins (BMP), epidermal growth factor (EGF), fibroblast growth factor
(FGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I and II),
TGF-p, etc. Examples of pharmaceutically active compounds that may be used
sutures to promote tissue ingrowth include, but are not limited to, acyclovir,
cephradine, malfalen, procaine, ephedrine, adriomycin, daunomycin, plumbagin,
                                           29

atropine, quanine, digoxin, quinidine, biologically active peptides, chlorin e.sub.6,
cephalothin, praline and praline analogues such as cis-hydroxy-L-proline, penicillin V,
aspirin, ibuprofen, steroids, nicotinic acid, chemodeoxycholic acid, chlorambucil, and
the like. Therapeutically effective dosages may be determined by either in vitro or in
vivo methods.
[0053]      Sutures are well known medical devices in the art. In some embodiments,
sutures have braided or monofilament constructions. In some embodiments sutures
are provided in single-armed or double-armed configurations with a surgical needle
mounted to one or both ends of the suture, or may be provided without surgical
needles mounted. In some embodiments, the end of the suture distal to the needle
comprises one or more structures to anchor the suture. In some embodiments, the
distal end of the suture comprises one or more of a: closed loop, open loop, anchor
point, barb, hook, etc. In some embodiments, sutures comprise one or more
biocompatible materials. In some embodiments, sutures comprise one or more of a
variety of known bioabsorbable and nonabsorbable materials. For example, in some
embodiments, sutures comprise one or more aromatic polyesters such as
polyethylene terephthalate, nylons such as nylon 6 and nylon 66, polyolefins such
as polypropylene, silk, and other nonabsorbable polymers. In some embodiments,
sutures comprise one or more polymers and/or copolymers of p-dioxanone (also
known as 1,4-dioxane-2-one), E-caprolactone, glycolide, L(-)-lactide, D(+)-lactide,
meso-lactide, trimethylene carbonate, and combinations thereof. In some
embodiments, sutures comprise polydioxanone homopolymer. The above listing of
suture materials should not be viewed as limiting. Suture materials and
                                            30

characteristics are known in the art. Any suitable suture materials or combinations
thereof are within the scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments,
sutures comprise sterile, medical grade, surgical grade, and or biodegradable
materials. In some embodiments, a suture is coated with, contains, and/or elutes one
or more bioactive substances (e.g., antiseptic, antibiotic, anesthetic, promoter of
healing, etc.).
[0054]       In some embodiments, the structure and material of the suture provides
physiologically-tuned elasticity. In some embodiments, a suture of appropriate
elasticity is selected for a tissue. In some embodiments, suture elasticity is matched
to a tissue. For example, in some embodiments, sutures for use in abdominal wall
closure will have similar elasticity to the abdominal wall, so as to reversibly deform
along with the abdominal wall, rather than act as a relatively rigid structure that would
carry higher risk of pull-through. In some embodiments, elasticity would not be so
great however, so as to form a loose closure that could easily be pulled apart. In
some embodiments, deformation of the suture would start occurring just before the
elastic limit of its surrounding tissue, e.g., before the tissue starts tearing or
irreversibly deforming.
[0055]       In some embodiments, sutures described herein provide a suitable
replacement or alternative for surgical repair meshes (e.g., those used in hernia
repair). In some embodiments, the use of sutures in place of mesh reduces the
amount of foreign material placed into a subject (e.g., 50 cm2 (suture) v. 240 cm2
(mesh)). In some embodiments, the decreased likelihood of suture pull-through
allows the use of sutures to close tissues not possible with traditional sutures (e.g.,
                                             31

areas of poor tissue quality (e.g., friable or weak tissue) due to conditions like
inflammation, fibrosis, atrophy, denervation, congenital disorders, attenuation due to
age, or other acute and chronic diseases). Like a surgical mesh, sutures described
herein permit a distribution of forces over a larger area thereby delocalizing forces felt
by the tissue and reducing the chance of suture pull-though and failure of the closure.
[0056]      In some embodiments, sutures are permanent, removable, or absorbable.
In some embodiments, permanent sutures provide added strength to a closure or
other region of the body, without the expectation that the sutures will be removed
upon the tissue obtaining sufficient strength. In such embodiments, materials are
selected that pose little risk of long-term residency in a tissue or body. In some
embodiments, removable sutures are stable (e.g., do not readily degrade in a
physiological environment), and are intended for removal when the surrounding
tissue reaches full closure strength. In some embodiments, absorbable sutures
integrate with the tissue in the same manner as permanent or removable sutures, but
eventually (e.g., >1 week, > 2 weeks, >3 weeks, >4 weeks, >10 weeks, >25 weeks, >
1 year) biodegrade and/or are absorbed into the tissue after having served the utility
of holding the tissue together during the post-operative and/or healing period. In
some embodiments absorbable sutures present a reduced foreign body risk.
[0057]      Although prevention of dehiscence of abdominal closures (e.g., hernia
formation) is specifically described at an application of embodiments of the present
disclosure, the sutures described herein are useful for joining any tissue types
throughout the body. In some embodiments, sutures described herein are of
particular utility to closures that are subject top tension and/or for which cheesewiring
                                            32

is a concern. Exemplary tissues within which the present disclosure finds use
include, but are not limited to: connective tissue, muscle, dermal tissue, cartilage,
tendon, or any other soft tissues. Specific applications of sutures described herein
include placation, suspensions, slings, etc. Sutures described herein find use in
surgical procedures, non-surgical medical procedures, veterinary procedures, in-field
medical procedures, etc. The scope of the present disclosure is not limited by the
potential applications of the sutures described herein.
[0058]      Yet, from the foregoing, it should also be appreciated that the present
disclosure additionally provides both a novel method of re-apposing soft tissue and a
novel method of manufacturing a medical device.
[0059]      Based on the present disclosure, a method of re-apposing soft tissue can
first include piercing a portion of the soft tissue with the surgical needle 12 (as shown
in Figure 9, for example) attached to a first end 14a of a tubular suture 14. Next, a
physician can thread the tubular suture 14 through the soft tissue and make one or
more stitches, as is generally known. Finally, the physician can anchor the tubular
suture 14 in place in the soft tissue. As disclosed hereinabove, the tubular suture 14
comprises a tubular mesh wall 16 defining a hollow core 18. The tubular mesh wall
16 defines a plurality or pores 20, each with a pore size that is greater than or equal
to approximately 500 microns. So configured, the tubular suture 14 is adapted to
accommodate the soft tissue growing through the tubular mesh wall 16 and into the
hollow core 18, thereby integrating with the suture. In some versions, the method
can further and finally include anchoring the tubular suture 14 in place by passing the
surgical needle 12 through a closed loop anchor 22 (as seen in Figure 10, for
                                            33

example) at the second end 14b of the tubular suture 14 and creating a cinch for
anchoring the suture 14 to the soft tissue. Once anchored, the suture 14 can be cut
off near the anchor 22 and any remaining unused portion of the suture 14 can be
discarded.
[0060]      A method of manufacturing a medical device in accordance with the
present disclosure can include forming a tubular wall 16 having a plurality or pores 20
and defining a hollow core 18, each pore 20 having a pore size that is greater than or
equal to approximately 500 microns. Additionally, the method of manufacturing can
include attaching a first end 14a of the tubular wall 14 to a surgical needle 12, such
as that illustrated in Figure 9. Forming the tubular wall 14 can include forming a tube
from a mesh material. The tubular mesh wall 16 may be formed by directly weaving
or knitting fibers into a tube shape. Alternatively, forming the tubular mesh wall 16
can include weaving or knitting fibers into a planar sheet and subsequently forming
the planar sheet into a tube shape. Of course, other manufacturing possibilities exist
and knitting and weaving fibers are not the only possibilities for creating a porous
tube within the scope of the present disclosure, but rather, are mere examples.
[0061]      Still further, a method of manufacturing a medical device 10 in accordance
with the present disclosure can include providing an anchor 22 on an end of the
tubular wall 16 opposite the needle 12. In some versions of the method, and as one
example only, providing the anchor can be as simple as forming a loop, such as to
resemble the anchor 22 depicted in Figure 10.
                                            34

[0062]    To substantiate some characteristics of the medical device 10 described
herein, a number of experiments were conducted and the character and results of
some of those experiments are presented below.
EXPERIMENTAL WORK
[0063]     Example 1
[0064]     Finite element analyses of the suture/tissue interface for sutured abdominal
wall closures
[0065]      Experiments were conducted during development of embodiments of the
present disclosure to perform finite element analyses of the suture/tissue interface for
sutured abdominal wall closures. A theoretic basis was created for intuitive concepts
and clinical observations as the first step in the design of this line of inquiry (See
Figures 1,2). Finite element analysis of the suture/tissue interface was performed
(Figure 3). Experiments demonstrated that increasing suture size (i.e., diameter)
decreases the forces at the suture/tissue interface as hypothesized (Figure 4).
Suture shape was also shown to impact the local forces applied on the tissue by
suture (Figure 5).
[0066]     Example 2
[0067]    Creating "equivalency" between conventional and macroporous suture of
the present disclosure.
                                           35

[0068]       A size 0-polypropylene suture is commonly used in hernia repair for its
features of handling and high strength. Experiments were conducted to determine a
cross-sectionally shaped suture that is the relative equivalent to such a suture. The
two-dimensional suture was compared to this commonly used standard suture for
load at yield, maximal load, and Young's modulus. An Instron 5964 was used for
mechanical testing. Experiments demonstrated a relative equivalency between 0
polypropylene and a two-dimensional ribbon suture of 5 mm in width (Figures 6 and
7). A 5-0 polypropylene suture, used in experimental rat hernia repair, had an
equivalency to a 2 mm wide sample of a macroporous suture of the present
disclosure.
[0069]      Example 3
[0070]      Creating and validating an acute suture pull-through model using biologic
tissue and tensometry
[0071]       Porcine linea alba is available from local slaughterhouses to provide
realistic testing of acute suture pull-through. Standard suture and macroporous
suture of the present disclosure were placed uniformly through porcine tissue. To
decrease biologic variability, adjacent pieces of fascia were randomized to either
standard suture or two-dimensional suture, with the width of the suture bite mimicking
what is done clinically (1cm from the edge). Tensometry using an Instron 5964
testing suture pull-through at both slow and fast speeds to simulate both baseline
suture tension and episodic high tension (e.g., coughing, stairs, etc.) were performed.
Considering biologic variability and the readily accessible biologic materials, a
                                            36

suitable number of tests were performed for both standard and macroporous suture
of the present disclosure.
[0072]     Example 4
[0073]     Rat hernia model
[0074]      Experiments were conducted during development of embodiments of the
present disclosure reproducing an established rat hernia model to in order to assess
pull-through of standard suture and our experimental macroporous suture.
[0075]     A well-established rat hernia model was reproduced (Dubay DA, Ann Surg
2007; 245: 140-146; herein incorporated by reference in its entirety). Rat ventral
hernias were randomized to repair with two standard sutures (5-0 polypropylene),
and with two integrated sutures with equivalent tensile strength.    One month after
hernia repair, the rats were sacrificed and analyzed for hernia recurrence, hernia
size, and suture pull-through. Histology of the abdominal wall for analysis of suture
integration was assessed by blinded observers. In these experiments, none of the
macroporous sutures of the present disclosure pulled through in 17 rat hernias (i.e.,
34 of 34 integrated macroporous sutures maintained their hold on the abdominal wall
without failure, with the image on the left-hand side of Figure 16 as a typical
example). The macroporous suture of the present disclosure facilitated tissue
integration for every suture of every rat in which it was used. On the left of Figure 17,
in one instance there is an 82% reduction in the defect area one month after repair
with macroporous suture. In contrast, in 13 rat hernias repaired with a conventional
suture, 11 of 13 rats had at least one suture completely pull-through the abdominal
wall. The right-hand side of Figure 16 is an example of a hernia repair failure with
                                           37

both sutures pulling through. On the right-hand side of Figure 17, it is shown that
hernia size increased 42% one month after repair with standard suture in one test
animal. Figure 18 shows a graph comparing the mean defect area of 30 rat hernias
repaired according to Figures 16 and 17 randomized to repair either with the
macroporous suture of the present disclosure or with a conventional suture. One
month after repair, average hernia size decreased 54% with the experimental
macroporous suture of the present disclosure, while hernia size increased 5% with
the conventional suture. Some element of recurrent hernia with both standard and
experimental sutures was expected-only two sutures were used in this model, while
6 would be required to achieve a completely closed abdominal wall.
[0076]    Example 5
[0077]    Suture Width
[0078]      Experiments conducted to evaluate the effect of suture width
demonstrated that increased suture width resulted in an increase in maximum load of
the suture, resulting in decreased pull-through of the suture. Tinned copper flat
braided wire was used as a prototype for suture of varying widths. Relative to tissue,
metal wire is essentially noncompliant, creating a system that isolates the effect of
the variable of width on pull-through of suture placed in tissue. Wires of varying width
were placed into two different substances: fresh animal tissue (porcine abdominal
wall) and synthetic foam sheeting, and an Instron 5942 tensometer was used to
precisely measure the breaking strength of this system. Wire was tested from widths
of .36mm (equivalent to 0 prolene suture) to 5mm. These experiments was to
examined the effects of increasing suture width in both animal tissue and synthetic
                                          38

"tissue" to determine if there were any differences between an ex vivo and synthetic
substrate.
[0079]      Figure 14 demonstrates that with increasing suture width greater force is
required to pull-through porcine abdomen. Unexpectedly, the benefits of increasing
suture width began peaking at a width of around 3mm. At a width of 3.75mm, pull
through resistance (maximum load of the system) actually decreased; video time
lapse analysis shows that at this width tissue began fracturing on both sides of wire,
tending to come off as a segment of tissue. In contrast, at smaller widths, wire would
cut through tissue in a single fracture line. Fracture pattern therefore has a bearing
on the maximum strength of the system.
[0080]      Figure 15 demonstrates that the same relationship is preserved in
synthetic tissue. In this so-called "clean" system, utilizing foam instead of animal
tissue (foam being a homogenous substance with fewer mechanical variables than
animal tissue), benefits of wider than conventional suture were demonstrated, further
confirming that increased load-bearing surface area at the suture-tissue interface
decreases pull-through. However, in a similar manner to porcine tissue, the benefit
of increasing width was demonstrated up to 3.75mm, at which point the foam
substrate began fracturing as a segment.
[0081]      While it was initially hypothesized that the wider the suture the less it will
tear through, in some embodiments, suture width is not the only consideration.        For
example, it is clear that tissue integration (i.e., in-growth through the suture 14 pores
20 and into the hollow core 28) into the suture 14 further increases the strength of the
repair and reduces and/or completely eliminates the risk of suture pull-through.
                                            39

Moreover, as shown above, experiments conducted during development of various
embodiments of the present disclosure demonstrate that increasing the load-bearing
surface area will further reduce the occurrence of pull through. Wire pulling
experiments in porcine abdomen, confirmed such findings. In some experiments,
with widths above 3.75mm, pull-through resistance reduced. Rather than the suture
tearing through the tissue in a straight line, it started breaking off the tissue as a
segment or block. This finding was unexpected. These experiments were repeated
using a homogenous/synthetic substance to test whether the benefit of increasing
width would also peak. A rubber foam which was about the same thickness as
porcine linea alba was used. Unexpectedly, the force required to pull the suture
through the foam peaked at the same suture width, and the foam even tore in the
same pattern as the porcine tissue. The suture width to max load relationship was
preserved in both animal and synthetic tissue.
[0082]      Both these experiments indicate that the suture width/max load
relationship is due to mechanical phenomena; although, the present disclosure is not
limited to any particular mechanism of action and an understanding of the
mechanism of action is not necessary to practice the present disclosure.
[0083]     Various modifications and variations of the described method and system of
the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the
scope and spirit of the disclosure. Although the disclosure has been described in
connection with specific preferred embodiments, it should be understood that the
disclosure as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments.
Indeed, various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the disclosure
                                            40

that are obvious to those skilled in the relevant fields are intended to be within the
scope of the present disclosure.
                                           41

We claim:
  1. A medical device comprising:
  a surgical needle; and
  an elongated mesh suture having a first end attached to the surgical needle and a
  second end located away from the surgical needle, the elongated mesh suture
  including a flat wall and a plurality of pores extending through the flat wall,
  the flat wall having a length dimension extending substantially entirely from the first
  end to the second end of the elongated mesh suture, the flat wall having a cross
  sectional rectangular profile with a substantially uniform width dimension and a
  substantially uniform thickness dimension along the entire length dimension, the
 width dimension being greater than the thickness dimension and the width dimension
  being between approximately 1 mm and approximately 1 cm,
  at least some of the pores having a pore size that is greater than or equal to
  approximately 200 microns such that the pores are adapted to facilitate tissue
  integration through the flat wall when the elongated mesh suture is introduced into a
  body.
  2. The medical device of claim 1, wherein the width dimension is between
  approximately 1 mm and approximately 5 mm.
                                              42

3.   The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pore size is
in a range of approximately 200 microns to approximately 4 millimeters.
4.   The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pore size is
in the range of approximately 500 microns to approximately 4 millimeters.
5.   The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the suture is
constructed of a material selected from the group consisting of: polyethylene
terephthalate, nylon, polyolefin, polypropylene, silk, polymers p-dioxanone, co
polymer of p-dioxanone, E-caprolactone, glycolide, L(-)-lactide, D(+)-lactide, meso
lactide, trimethylene carbonate, polydioxanone homopolymer, and combinations
thereof.
6.   The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an
anchor attached to the second end of the elongated suture for preventing suture pull
through during use, the anchor having a dimension that is larger than the width
dimension of the suture.
7.   The medical device of claim 6, wherein the anchor comprises a loop, a ball, a
disc, a cylinder, a barb, and/or a hook.
                                          43

8.   The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the flat wall
comprises a woven or knitted mesh material.
9.   The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein flat wall is
ribbon-like.
10. The medical device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the surgical
needle transitions from a radially symmetric cross-sectional profile at a distal end
away from the elongated suture to a cross-sectional profile lacking radial symmetry at
a proximal end attached to the elongated mesh suture.
11. The medical device of 10, wherein the proximal end of the surgical needle
includes a rectangular cross-sectional profile.
12. A method of re-apposing soft tissue, the method comprising:
piercing a portion of the soft tissue with a surgical needle attached to a first end of an
elongated mesh suture;
threading the elongated mesh suture through the soft tissue, wherein the elongated
suture includes the first end attached to the surgical needle and a second end
located away from the surgical needle, the elongated mesh suture including a flat
wall and a plurality of pores extending through the flat wall, the flat wall having a
                                           44

length dimension extending substantially entirely from the first end to the second end
of the elongated mesh suture, the flat wall having a cross-sectional rectangular profile
with a substantially uniform width dimension and a substantially uniform thickness
dimension along the entire length dimension, the width dimension being greater than
the thickness dimension and the width dimension being between approximately 1 mm
and approximately 1 cm, at least some of the pores having a pore size that is greater
than or equal to approximately 200 microns such that the pores are adapted to
accommodate the soft tissue growing through the flat mesh wall, thereby integrating
with the elongated mesh suture.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein threading the elongated mesh suture through
the soft tissue comprises making a plurality of stitches.
14. The method of any one of claims 12 to 13, further comprising anchoring the
elongated mesh suture in place in the soft tissue after threading the elongated mesh
suture through the soft tissue.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein anchoring the elongated mesh suture in place
comprises passing the surgical needle through a closed loop anchor at the second
end of the elongated mesh suture and creating a cinch for anchoring the elongated
mesh suture to the soft tissue.
                                         45

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
